.TH MESA_7I65 "9" "2020-08-11" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NAME

mesa_7i65 \- Support for the Mesa 7i65 Octuple Servo Card
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B loadrt mesa_7i65
.SH DESCRIPTION

The component takes parameters in the form of a comma-separated
list of bspi (buffered SPI) instance names, for example:

\fB loadrt mesa_7i65 bspi_chans=hm2_5i23.0.bspi.0, hm2_5i23.0.bspi.1\fR

The BSPI instances are printed to the dmesg buffer during the Hostmot2 setup
sequence, one for each bspi instance included in the bitfile loaded to each
installed card during the Hostmot2 setup sequence. Type "dmesg" at the terminal
prompt to view the output.
.SH PINS
.TP
.B mesa-7i65.\fIN\fB.analogue.\fIM\fB.out\fR float in  (M=0..7) \fR
Analogue output values. The value will be
limited to a  -1.0 to +1.0 range
.TP
.B mesa-7i65.\fIN\fB.analogue.\fIM\fB.in\fR float out  (M=0..7) \fR
Analogue outputs read by the 7i65 (in Volts)
.TP
.B mesa-7i65.\fIN\fB.digital.\fIM\fB.in\fR bit out  (M=0..3) \fR
Miscellaneous Digital Inputs
.TP
.B mesa-7i65.\fIN\fB.enable.\fIM\fB.out\fR bit in  (M=0..7) \fR
Amplifier-enable control pins
.TP
.B mesa-7i65.\fIN\fB.watchdog.has-bit\fR bit out \fR
Indicates the status of the 7i65 Watchdog (which
is separate from the FPGA card watchdog
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B mesa-7i65.\fIN\fB.scale-\fIM\fB\fR float rw  (M=0..7) \fR(default: \fI10\fR)
Analogue output scale factor. For example if
the scale is 7 then an input of 1.0 will give 7V on the output terminals
.TP
.B mesa-7i65.\fIN\fB.is-bipolar-\fIM\fB\fR bit rw  (M=0..7) \fR(default: \fI1\fR)
Set this value to TRUE for a plus/minus
"scale" output. Set to 0 for a 0-"scale" output
.SH AUTHOR

Andy Pugh / Cliff Blackburn
.SH LICENSE

GPL
