.TH SERPORT "9" "2020-08-11" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NAME

serport \- Hardware driver for the digital I/O bits of the 8250 and 16550 serial port.
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B loadrt serport io=\fIaddr[,addr...]\fR
.PP
The pin numbers refer to the 9-pin serial pinout.  Keep in mind that these ports generally use rs232 voltages, not 0/5V signals.

Specify the I/O address of the serial ports using the module parameter
\fBio=\fIaddr[,addr...]\fR.  These ports must not be in use by the kernel.
To free up the I/O ports after bootup, install setserial and execute a command
like:
.RS 
sudo setserial /dev/ttyS0 uart none
.RE
but it is best to ensure that the serial port is never used or configured by
the Linux kernel by setting a kernel commandline parameter or not loading
the serial kernel module if it is a modularized driver.

.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
\fBserport.\fIN\fB.read\fR

.TP
\fBserport.\fIN\fB.write\fR

.SH PINS
.TP
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-1-in\fR bit out \fR
Also called DCD (data carrier detect); pin 8 on the 25-pin serial pinout
.TP
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-6-in\fR bit out \fR
Also called DSR (data set ready); pin 6 on the 25-pin serial pinout
.TP
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-8-in\fR bit out \fR
Also called CTS (clear to send); pin 5 on the 25-pin serial pinout
.TP
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-9-in\fR bit out \fR
Also called RI (ring indicator); pin 22 on the 25-pin serial pinout
.TP
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-1-in-not\fR bit out \fR
Inverted version of pin-1-in
.TP
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-6-in-not\fR bit out \fR
Inverted version of pin-6-in
.TP
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-8-in-not\fR bit out \fR
Inverted version of pin-8-in
.TP
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-9-in-not\fR bit out \fR
Inverted version of pin-9-in
.TP
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-3-out\fR bit in \fR
Also called TX (transmit data); pin 2 on the 25-pin serial pinout
.TP
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-4-out\fR bit in \fR
Also called DTR (data terminal ready); pin 20 on the 25-pin serial pinout
.TP
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-7-out\fR bit in \fR
Also called RTS (request to send); pin 4 on the 25-pin serial pinout
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-3-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-4-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B serport.\fIN\fB.pin-7-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B serport.\fIN\fB.ioaddr\fR u32 r \fR
.SH LICENSE

GPL
