.TH SIM_PARPORT "9" "2020-08-11" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NAME

sim_parport \- A component to simulate the pins of the hal_parport component
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B loadrt sim_parport [count=\fIN\fB|names=\fIname1\fB[,\fIname2...\fB]]
.SH DESCRIPTION


Sim_parport is used to replace the pins of a real parport without changing
any of the pins names in the rest of the config.
.br
It has pass-through pins (ending in \-fake) that allows connecting to other components.

eg pin\-02\-in     will follow     pin\-02\-in\-fake 's logic.
.br
pin_01_out\-fake     will follow    pin_01_out (possibly modified by pin_01_out\-invert)

It creates all possible pins of both 'in' and 'out' options of the hal_parport component.
.br
This allows using other hardware I/O in place of the parport (without having to change the rest of the config)
.br
or simulating hardware such as limit switches.
.br
it's primary use is in Stepconf for building simulated configs.
.br
You must use the names= option to have the right pin names.
.br
eg. names=parport.0,parport.1
.br
The read and write functions pass the logic from pins to fake pins or vice vera
.br
The reset function is a no operation.
 

.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
\fBsim-parport.\fIN\fB.read\fR

.TP
\fBsim-parport.\fIN\fB.write\fR

.TP
\fBsim-parport.\fIN\fB.reset\fR

.SH PINS
.TP
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-01-out\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-02-out\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-03-out\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-04-out\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-05-out\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-06-out\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-07-out\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-08-out\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-09-out\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-14-out\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-16-out\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-17-out\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-01-out-fake\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-02-out-fake\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-03-out-fake\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-04-out-fake\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-05-out-fake\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-06-out-fake\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-07-out-fake\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-08-out-fake\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-09-out-fake\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-14-out-fake\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-16-out-fake\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-17-out-fake\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-02-in\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-03-in\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-04-in\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-05-in\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-06-in\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-07-in\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-08-in\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-09-in\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-10-in\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-11-in\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-12-in\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-13-in\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-15-in\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-02-in-fake\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-03-in-fake\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-04-in-fake\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-05-in-fake\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-06-in-fake\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-07-in-fake\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-08-in-fake\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-09-in-fake\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-10-in-fake\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-11-in-fake\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-12-in-fake\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-13-in-fake\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-15-in-fake\fR bit in \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-02-in-not\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-03-in-not\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-04-in-not\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-05-in-not\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-06-in-not\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-07-in-not\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-08-in-not\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-09-in-not\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-10-in-not\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-11-in-not\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-12-in-not\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-13-in-not\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-15-in-not\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.reset-time\fR float in \fR
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-01-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-02-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-03-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-04-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-05-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-06-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-07-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-08-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-09-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-14-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-16-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-17-out-invert\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-01-out-reset\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-02-out-reset\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-03-out-reset\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-04-out-reset\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-05-out-reset\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-06-out-reset\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-07-out-reset\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-08-out-reset\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-09-out-reset\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-14-out-reset\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-16-out-reset\fR bit rw \fR
.TQ
.B sim-parport.\fIN\fB.pin-17-out-reset\fR bit rw \fR
.SH AUTHOR

Chris Morley
.SH LICENSE

GPL
