.TH STEPTEST "9" "2020-08-11" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NAME

steptest \- Used by Stepconf to allow testing of acceleration and velocity values for an axis.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B loadrt steptest [count=\fIN\fB|names=\fIname1\fB[,\fIname2...\fB]]
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
\fBsteptest.\fIN\fB\fR (requires a floating-point thread)

.SH PINS
.TP
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.jog-minus\fR bit in \fR
Drive TRUE to jog the axis in its minus direction
.TP
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.jog-plus\fR bit in \fR
Drive TRUE to jog the axis in its positive direction
.TP
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.run\fR bit in \fR
Drive TRUE to run the axis near its current position_fb with a trapezoidal velocity profile
.TP
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.maxvel\fR float in \fR
Maximum velocity
.TP
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.maxaccel\fR float in \fR
Permitted Acceleration
.TP
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.amplitude\fR float in \fR
Approximate amplitude of positions to command during 'run'
.TP
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.dir\fR s32 in \fR
Direction from central point to test: 0 = both, 1 = positive, 2 = negative
.TP
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.position-cmd\fR float out \fR
.TQ
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.position-fb\fR float in \fR
.TQ
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.running\fR bit out \fR
.TQ
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.run-target\fR float out \fR
.TQ
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.run-start\fR float out \fR
.TQ
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.run-low\fR float out \fR
.TQ
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.run-high\fR float out \fR
.TQ
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.pause\fR s32 in \fR(default: \fI0\fR)
pause time for each end of run in seconds
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.epsilon\fR float rw \fR(default: \fI.001\fR)
.TQ
.B steptest.\fIN\fB.elapsed\fR float r \fR
Current value of the internal timer
.SH LICENSE

GPL
