#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass book
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Chapter

G-Code Examples
\layout Standard

After you install EMC2 several sample files are placed in the /nc_files
 folder.
 Make sure the sample file is appropriate for your machine before running.
 
\layout Section

Probing
\layout Subsection

Grid Probe
\layout Standard

File Name: gridprobe.ngc
\layout Standard

Description: Rectangular Probing
\layout Standard

This program repeatedly probes in a regular XY grid and writes the probed
 location to the file 'probe-results.txt' in the same directory as the .ini
 file.
\layout Subsection

Tool Length Probe
\layout Standard

File Name: tool-lenght-probe.ngc
\layout Standard

Description: Tool Length Probing
\layout Standard

This program demonstrates how to measure tool lengths automatically using
 a switch hooked to the probe input.
 This is useful for machines without tool holders, where the length of a
 tool is different every time it is inserted.
\layout Subsection
\pagebreak_top 
Hole Probe
\layout Standard

File Name: probe-hole.ngc
\layout Standard

Description: Finding the Center and Diameter of a hole.
\layout Standard

The program demonstrates how to find the center of a hole, measure the hole
 diameter and record the results.
 The example does not include a tool change to put a probe in the spindle.
 Add the tool change code at the beginning, if needed.
\layout Standard

Note that this code will not function until you replace <description of
 number> with a number.
 
\layout LyX-Code

G0 Z <Z-value of retracted position> F <feed rate> 
\layout LyX-Code

#1001=<nominal X-value of hole center> 
\layout LyX-Code

#1002=<nominal Y-value of hole center> 
\layout LyX-Code

#1003=<some Z-value inside the hole> 
\layout LyX-Code

#1004=<probe tip radius> 
\layout LyX-Code

#1005=[<nominal hole diameter>/2.0 - #1004] 
\layout LyX-Code

G0 X#1001 Y#1002 (move above nominal hole center) 
\layout LyX-Code

G0 Z#1003 (move into hole - to be cautious, substitute G1 for G0 here) 
\layout LyX-Code

G38.2 X[#1001 + #1005] (probe +X side of hole) 
\layout LyX-Code

#1011=#5061 (save results) G0 X#1001 Y#1002 (back to center of hole) 
\layout LyX-Code

G38.2 X[#1001 - #1005] (probe -X side of hole) 
\layout LyX-Code

#1021=[[#1011 + #5061] / 2.0] (find pretty good X-value of hole center) 
\layout LyX-Code

G0 X#1021 Y#1002 (back to center of hole) 
\layout LyX-Code

G38.2 Y[#1002 + #1005] (probe +Y side of hole) 
\layout LyX-Code

#1012=#5062 (save results) 
\layout LyX-Code

G0 X#1021 Y#1002 (back to center of hole) 
\layout LyX-Code

G38.2 Y[#1002 - #1005] (probe -Y side of hole) 
\layout LyX-Code

#1022=[[#1012 + #5062] / 2.0] (find very good Y-value of hole center) 
\layout LyX-Code

#1014=[#1012 - #5062 + [2 * #1004]] (find hole diameter in Y-direction)
 
\layout LyX-Code

G0 X#1021 Y#1022 (back to center of hole) 
\layout LyX-Code

G38.2 X[#1021 + #1005] (probe +X side of hole) 
\layout LyX-Code

#1031=#5061 (save results) 
\layout LyX-Code

G0 X#1021 Y#1022 (back to center of hole) 
\layout LyX-Code

G38.2 X[#1021 - #1005] (probe -X side of hole) 
\layout LyX-Code

#1041=[[#1031 + #5061] / 2.0] (find very good X-value of hole center) 
\layout LyX-Code

#1024=[#1031 - #5061 + [2 * #1004]] (find hole diameter in X-direction)
 
\layout LyX-Code

#1034=[[#1014 + #1024] / 2.0] (find average hole diameter) 
\layout LyX-Code

#1035=[#1024 - #1014] (find difference in hole diameters) 
\layout LyX-Code

G0 X#1041 Y#1022 (back to center of hole) 
\layout LyX-Code

M2 (end of program) 
\layout Section

Cutter Compensation
\layout Subsection

G1 Lead In Move
\layout Standard

File Name: comp-g1.ngc
\layout Standard

Description: Cutter compensation with straight lead in and out.
\layout Standard

This file demonstrates how to do a cutter compensation move using a G1 straight
 line lead in and lead out move.
 It is an error to have a G1 lead in move form a concave angle.
\the_end
