#LyX 1.5.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 276
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
GS2 Spindle
\begin_inset LatexCommand label
name "cha:GS2-Spindle"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This example shows the connections needed to use an Automation Direct GS2
 VFD to drive a spindle.
 The spindle speed and direction is controlled by EMC.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using the GS2 component involves very little to set up.
 We start with a Stepconf Wizard generated config.
 Make sure the pins with "Spindle CW" and "Spindle PWM" are set to unused
 in the parallel port setup screen.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the custom.hal file we place the following to connect EMC to the GS2 and
 have EMC control the drive.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
# load the user space component for the Automation Direct GS2 VFD's
\newline
loadusr
 -Wn spindle-vfd gs2_vfd -n spindle-vfd
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
# connect the spindle direction pin to the GS2
\newline
net gs2-fwd spindle-vfd.spindle-fwd
 <= motion.spindle-forward
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
# connect the spindle on pin to the GS2
\newline
net gs2-run spindle-vfd.spindle-on
 <= motion.spindle-on
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
# connect the GS2 at speed to the motion at speed
\newline
net gs2-at-speed motion.spindle-
at-speed <= spindle-vfd.at-speed
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
# connect the spindle RPM to the GS2
\newline
net gs2-RPM spindle-vfd.speed-command
 <= motion.spindle-speed-out
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
On the GS2 drive itself you need to set a couple of things before the modbus
 communications will work.
 Other parameters might need to be set based on your physical requirements
 but is beyond the scope of this manual.
 Refer to the GS2 manual that came with the drive for more information on
 parameters.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The communications switches must be set to RS-232C
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The motor parameters must be set
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
P3.00 (Source of Operation Command) must be set to Operation determined by
 RS-485 interface 03 or 04
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
P4.00 (Source of Frequency Command) must be set to Frequency determined by
 RS232C/RS485 communication interface 05
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
P9.02 (Communication Protocol) must be set to Modbus RTU mode 8 data bits,
 no parity, 2 stop bits 03
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A pyVCP panel based on this example is in the pyVCP Examples section of
 this manual.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
