= hm2_rpspi(9)

== NAME

hm2_rpspi - LinuxCNC HAL driver for the Mesa Electronics SPI Anything IO
boards, with HostMot2 firmware.

== SYNOPSIS

*loadrt hm2_rpspi*

____
*config* [default: ""]::
  HostMot2 config strings, described in the *hostmot2*(9) manpage.
*spiclk_rate* [default: 31250]::
  Specify the SPI clock rate in kHz. See *SPI CLOCK RATES* below.
*spiclk_rate_rd* [default: -1 (same as *spiclk_rate*)]::
  Specify the SPI read clock rate in kHz. Usually you read and write at
  the same speed. However, you may want to reduce the reading speed if
  the round-trip is too long (see *SPI CLOCK RATES* below).
*spiclk_base* [default: 400000000]::
  This is the SPI clock divider calculation fallback value. Usually, the
  base rate is read from _/sys/kernel/debug/clk/vpu/clk_rate_ and used
  in the divider calculation (for the Rpi3 it should be 250 MHz). The
  *spiclk_base* is _only_ used as a fallback if the system's cannot be
  read. It is normally safe (and recommended) that you leave this
  parameter as is. +
  You should set this manually to 250000000 if your system does not
  provide access to the kernel clock settings. Otherwise, your SPI clock
  frequency will be only 62.5% of the requested value.
*spi_pull_miso* [default: 1 (pull-down)]::
*spi_pull_mosi* [default: 1 (pull-down)]::
*spi_pull_sclk* [default: 1 (pull-down)]::
  Enable or disable pull-up/pull-down on the SPI lines. A value of 0
  disables any pull-up/down on the pin. A value of 1 means pull-down and
  2 means pull-up. The chip enable line(s) are always pull-up enabled.
*spi_probe* [default: 1]::
  Probe SPI port and CE lines for a card. This is a bit-field indicating
  which combinations of SPI and CE should be probed: - 1 = SPI0/CE0, - 2
  = SPI0/CE1, - 4 = SPI1/CE0, - 8 = SPI1/CE1, - 16 = SPI1/CE2.

The probe is performed exactly in above order. Any boards found will be
numbered 0...4 in the order found. See also *INTERFACE CONFIGURATION*
below.

It is an error if a probe fails and the driver will abort. The SPI0/SPI1
peripherals are located at GPIO pins (with 40-pin I/O header pin-number
in parentheses): - SPI0: MOSI=10(19), MISO=9(21), SCLK=11(23),
CE0=8(24), CE1=7(26) - SPI1: MOSI=20(38), MISO=19(35), SCLK=21(40),
CE0=18(12), CE1=17(11), CE2=16(36)

*spi_debug* [default: -1]::
  Set the message level of the running process. The message level is set
  if *spi_debug* is set to a positive value between 0 and 5, where 0
  means no messages at all and 5 means everything. A value of -1 does
  not touch the current message level.

Caveat Emptor: changing the message level is process-wide and all
modules within the process will spit out messages at the requested
level. This may cause quite some clutter in your terminal.
____

== DESCRIPTION

hm2_rpspi is a device driver for the Raspberry Pi 2/3 that interfaces
Mesa's SPI based Anything I/O boards (with the HostMot2 firmware) to the
LinuxCNC HAL. This driver is not based on the linux spidev driver, but
on a dedicated BCM2835-SPI driver.

It is *strongly* recommended that you unload/disable the kernel's spidev
driver by disabling it using *raspi-config*. Please note that having
both kernel and user-space SPI drivers installed can result in
unexpected interactions and system instabilities.

The supported boards are: 7I90HD.

The board must have a compatible firmware (ie.: 7i90_spi_svst4_8.bit)
loaded on the board by the *mesaflash*(1) program.

hm2_rpspi is only available when LinuxCNC is configured with "uspace"
realtime. It works with Raspian and PREEMPT_RT kernel.

== INTERFACE CONFIGURATION

Up to five devices (7i90 boards) are supported. Two on SPI0 and three on
SPI1. It is recommended that you, at most, use two devices and each
device connected to a separate SPI port. You can choose which CE lines
you prefer or fit the design and setup the *spi_probe* parameter to
instruct the driver where to search for the board(s).

== REALTIME PERFORMANCE OF THE BCM2835-SPI DRIVER

TBD.

== SPI CLOCK RATES

The maximum SPI clock of the BCM2835-SPI driver and the 7i90 is
documented over 32MHz. The SPI driver can provide frequencies well
beyond what is acceptable for the 7i90. A safe value to start with would
be 12.5 MHz (spiclk_rate=12500) and then work your way up from there.

The SPI driver generates (very) discrete clock frequency values,
especially in the MHz range because of a simple clock divider structure.
The base frequency is 250 MHz and the divider for SPI0/SPI1 scales using
discrete factors. The following list specifies the *spiclk_rate* setting
and the discrete SPI clock frequency (250 MHz / (2n) for n > 1): - 62500
- 62.500 MHz, - 41667 - 41.667 MHz, - 31250 - 31.250 MHz, - 25000 -
25.000 MHz, - 20834 - 20.833 MHz, - 17858 - 17.857 MHz, - 15625 - 15.625
MHz, - 13889 - 13.889 MHz, - 12500 - 12.500 MHz, - 11364 - 11.364 MHz, -
10417 - 10.417 MHz, - 9616 - 9.615 MHz, - ....

The lowest selectable SPI clock frequency is 30 kHz (spiclk_rate=30) for
SPI0 and SPI1. Theoretically, the SPI0 port could go slower, but there
is no point in doing so. You should not expect any real-time performance
with such slow setting, unless your machine is located next to a black
hole.

The highest SPI clock frequency is, theoretically, 125 MHz. However, you
will not be able to build any reliable hardware interface at that
frequency. The driver limits the clock to 62.5 MHz (cpiclk_rate=62500).
The chances are rather slim that you get the interface to work reliably
at this frequency. The 7i90 interface only supports frequencies up to 50
MHz and that is with perfect cabling and impedance matching (in write
direction only).

Writing to the 7i90 may be done faster than reading. This is especially
important if you have "long" wires or any buffers on the SPI-bus path.
You can set the read clock frequency to a lower value (using
*spiclk_rate_rd*) to counter the effects of the SPI-bus round-trip
needed for read actions. For example, you can write at 41.67 MHz and
read at 25.00 MHz.

It should be noted that the Rpi3 *must* have an adequate 5V power supply
and the power should be properly decoupled right on the 40-pin I/O
header. At high speeds and noise on the supply, there is the possibility
of noise throwing off the SoC's PLL(s), resulting in strange behaviour.

For optimal performance on the Rpi3, you must disable the "ondemand" CPU
frequency governor. You may add the following to your /etc/rc.local
file:
```
echo -n 1200000 > /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpufreq/policy0/scaling_min_freq
echo -n performance > /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpufreq/policy0/scaling_governor
```

Be sure to have a proper heatsink mounted on the SoC or it will get too warm and crashes.

== SEE ALSO

hostmot2(9)

== LICENSE

GPL
