#LyX 1.5.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 276
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
AX5214H
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Axiom Measurement & Control AX5214H is a 48 channel digital I/O board.
 It plugs into an ISA bus, and resembles a pair of 8255 chips.
 In fact it may be a pair of 8255 chips, but I'm not sure.
 If/when someone starts a driver for an 8255 they should look at the ax5214
 code, much of the work is already done.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Installing
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
loadrt hal_ax5214h cfg="<config-string>"
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The config string consists of a hex port address, followed by an 8 character
 string of "I" and "O" which sets groups of pins as inputs and outputs.
 The first two character set the direction of the first two 8 bit blocks
 of pins (0-7 and 8-15).
 The next two set blocks of 4 pins (16-19 and 20-23).
 The pattern then repeats, two more blocks of 8 bits (24-31 and 32-39) and
 two blocks of 4 bits (40-43 and 44-47).
 If more than one board is installed, the data for the second board follows
 the first.
 As an example, the string "0x220 IIIOIIOO 0x300 OIOOIOIO" installs drivers
 for two boards.
 The first board is at address 0x220, and has 36 inputs (0-19 and 24-39)
 and 12 outputs (20-23 and 40-47).
 The second board is at address 0x300, and has 20 inputs (8-15, 24-31, and
 40-43) and 28 outputs (0-7.
 16-23, 32-39, and 44-47).
 Up to 8 boards may be used in one system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Pins
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
(bit) ax5214.<boardnum>.out-<pinnum> -- Drives a physical output pin.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
(bit) ax5214.<boardnum>.in-<pinnum> -- Tracks a physical input pin.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
(bit) ax5214.<boardnum>.in-<pinnum>-not -- Tracks a physical input pin, inverted.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For each pin, <boardnum> is the board number (starts at zero), and <pinnum>
 is the I/O channel number (0 to 47).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Note that the driver assumes active LOW signals.
 This is so that modules such as OPTO-22 will work correctly (TRUE means
 output ON, or input energized).
 If the signals are being used directly without buffering or isolation the
 inversion needs to be accounted for.
 The in- HAL pin is TRUE if the physical pin is low (OPTO-22 module energized),
 and FALSE if the physical pin is high (OPTO-22 module off).
 The in-<pinnum>-not HAL pin is inverted -- it is FALSE if the physical
 pin is low (OPTO-22 module energized).
 By connecting a signal to one or the other, the user can determine the
 state of the input.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Parameters
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
(bit) ax5214.<boardnum>.out-<pinnum>-invert -- Inverts an output pin.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The -invert parameter determines whether an output pin is active high or
 active low.
 If -invert is FALSE, setting the HAL out- pin TRUE drives the physical
 pin low, turning ON an attached OPTO-22 module, and FALSE drives it high,
 turning OFF the OPTO-22 module.
 If -invert is TRUE, then setting the HAL out- pin TRUE will drive the physical
 pin high and turn the module OFF.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Functions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
(funct) ax5214.<boardnum>.read -- Reads all digital inputs on one board.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
(funct) ax5214.<boardnum>.write -- Writes all digital outputs on one board.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
