#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass book
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Chapter

GS2 VFD
\layout Standard

This is a userspace HAL program for the GS2 series of VFD's at Automation
 Direct.
 
\layout Standard

This component is loaded using the halcmd "loadusr" command: 
\layout Quote

loadusr -Wn spindle-vfd gs2_vfd -n spindle-vfd
\newline 
(loadusr, wait for named to load, component gs2_vfd, named spindle-vfd)
\layout Standard

The command-line options are: 
\layout Itemize

-b or --bits <n> (default 8) Set number of data bits to <n>, where n must
 be from 5 to 8 inclusive 
\layout Itemize

-d or --device <path> (default /dev/ttyS0) Set the name of the serial device
 node to use 
\layout Itemize

-g or --debug Turn on debugging messages.
 This will also set the verbose flag.
 Debug mode will cause all modbus messages to be printed in hex on the terminal.
 
\layout Itemize

-n or --name <string> (default gs2_vfd) Set the name of the HAL module.
 The HAL comp name will be set to <string>, and all pin and parameter names
 will begin with <string>.
 
\layout Itemize

-p or --parity {even,odd,none} (default odd) Set serial parity to even,
 odd, or none.
 
\layout Itemize

-r or --rate <n> (default 38400) Set baud rate to <n>.
 It is an error if the rate is not one of the following: 110, 300, 600,
 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600, 115200 
\layout Itemize

-s or --stopbits {1,2} (default 1) Set serial stop bits to 1 or 2
\layout Itemize

-t or --target <n> (default 1) Set MODBUS target (slave) number.
 This must match the device number you set on the GS2.
 
\layout Itemize

-v or --verbose Turn on debug messages.
 Note that if there are serial errors, this may become annoying.
 At the moment, it doesn't make much difference most of the time.
\layout Standard

Pins where <name> is the name given during loading with the -n option.
\layout Itemize

<name>.DC-bus-volts (float, out) The DC bus voltage of the VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.at-speed (bit, out) when drive is at commanded speed
\layout Itemize

<name>.err-reset (bit, in) reset errors sent to VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.firmware-revision (s32, out) from the VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.frequency-command (float, out) from the VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.frequency-out (float, out) from the VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.is-stopped (bit, out) when the VFD reports 0 Hz output
\layout Itemize

<name>.load-percentage (float, out) from the VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.motor-RPM (float, out) from the VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.output-current (float, out) from the VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.output-voltage (float, out) from the VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.power-factor (float, out) from the VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.scale-frequency (float, out) from the VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.speed-command (float, in) speed sent to VFD in RPM
\newline 
It is an error to send a speed faster than the Motor Max RPM as set in the
 VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.spindle-fwd (bit, in) 1 for FWD and 0 for REV sent to VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.spindle-rev (bit, in) 1 for REV and 0 if off
\layout Itemize

<name>.spindle-on (bit, in) 1 for ON and 0 for OFF sent to VFD
\layout Itemize

<name>.status-1 (s32, out) Drive Status of the VFD (see the GS2 manual)
\layout Itemize

<name>.status-2 (s32, out) Drive Status of the VFD (see the GS2 manual)
\newline 
Note that the value is a sum of all the bits that are on.
 So a 163 which means 
\newline 
the drive is in the run mode is the sum of 3 (run) + 32 (freq set by serial)
\newline 
+ 128 (operation set by serial).
\layout Standard

Parameters where <name> is the name given during loading with the -n option.
\layout Itemize

<name>.error-count (s32, RW) 
\layout Itemize

<name>.loop-time (float, RW) how often the modbus is polled (default 0.1)
\layout Itemize

<name>.nameplate-HZ (float, RW) Nameplate Hz of motor (default 60)
\layout Itemize

<name>.nameplate-RPM (float, RW) Nameplate RPM of motor (default 1730)
\layout Itemize

<name>.retval (s32, RW) the return value of an error in HAL
\layout Itemize

<name>.tolerance (s32, RW) speed tolerance (default 0.01)
\layout Standard

An example of using this component to drive a spindle is in the Hardware
 Examples section of this manual.
\the_end
