#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass book
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Chapter

Pico PPMC
\layout Standard

Pico Systems has a family of boards for doing servo, stepper, and pwm control.
 The boards connect to the PC through a parallel port working in EPP mode.
 Although most users connect one board to a parallel port, in theory any
 mix of up to 8 or 16 boards can be used on a single parport.
 One driver serves all types of boards.
 The final mix of I/O depends on the connected board(s).
 The driver doesn't distinguish between boards, it simply numbers I/O channels
 (encoders, etc) starting from 0 on the first card.
\layout Standard

Installing:
\layout Quote

loadrt hal_ppmc port_addr=<addr1>[,<addr2>[,<addr3>...]]
\layout Standard

The 
\family typewriter 
\series bold 
port_addr
\family default 
\series default 
 parameter tells the driver what parallel port(s) to check.
 By default, 
\family typewriter 
\series bold 
<addr1>
\family default 
\series default 
 is 0x0378, and 
\family typewriter 
\series bold 
<addr2>
\family default 
\series default 
 and following are not used.
 The driver searches the entire address space of the enhanced parallel port(s)
 at 
\family typewriter 
\series bold 
port_addr
\family default 
\series default 
, looking for any board(s) in the PPMC family.
 It then exports HAL pins for whatever it finds.
 During loading (or attempted loading) the driver prints some usefull debugging
 message to the kernel log, which can be viewed with 
\family typewriter 
\series bold 
dmesg
\family default 
\series default 
.
\layout Standard

Up to 3 parport busses may be used, and each bus may have up to 8 devices
 on it.
\layout Subsection

Pins
\layout Standard

In the following pins, parameters, and functions, <board> is the board ID.
 According to the naming conventions the first board should always have
 an ID of zero.
 However this driver sets the ID based on a pair of jumpers on the baord,
 so it may be non-zero even if there is only one board.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(s32
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.encoder.<channel>.count 
\family default 
-- Encoder position, in counts.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(s32
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.encoder.<channel>.delta 
\family default 
-- Change in counts since last read.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
(
\noun on 
float
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.encoder.<channel>.position 
\family default 
-- Encoder position, in user units.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(bit) 
\noun default 
ppmc.<port>.encoder.<channel>.index
\family default 
 -- Something to do with index pulse.
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

Index handling does _not_ comply with the canonical encoder interface, and
 should be changed.
\end_inset 


\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(bit) 
\noun default 
ppmc.<port>.pwm.<channel>.enable
\family default 
 -- Enables a PWM generator.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(float) 
\noun default 
ppmc.<port>.pwm.<channel>.value
\family default 
 -- Value which determines the duty cycle of the PWM waveforms.
 The value is divided by 
\family typewriter 
pwm.<channel>.scale
\family default 
, and if the result is 0.6 the duty cycle will be 60%, and so on.
 Negative values result in the duty cycle being based on the absolute value,
 and the direction pin is set to indicate negative.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(bit) 
\noun default 
ppmc.<port>.stepgen.<channel>.enable
\family default 
 -- Enables a step pulse generator.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(float) 
\noun default 
ppmc.<port>.stepgen.<channel>.velocity
\family default 
 -- Value which determines the step frequency.
 The value is multiplied by 
\family typewriter 
stepgen.<channel>.scale
\family default 
, and the result is the frequency in steps per second.
 Negative values result in the frequency being based on the absolute value,
 and the direction pin is set to indicate negative.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(bit) 
\noun default 
ppmc.<port>.in-<channel>
\family default 
 -- State of digital input pin, see canonical digital input.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(bit) 
\noun default 
ppmc.<port>.in.<channel>-not
\family default 
 -- Inverted state of digital input pin, see canonical digital input.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(bit) 
\noun default 
ppmc.<port>.out-<channel>
\family default 
 -- Value to be written to digital output, seen canonical digital output.
\layout Subsection

Parameters
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(float) 
\noun default 
ppmc.<port>.enc.<channel>.scale
\family default 
 -- The number of counts / user unit (to convert from counts to units).
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(float) 
\noun default 
ppmc.<port>.pwm.<channel-range>.freq
\family default 
 -- The PWM carrier frequency, in Hz.
 Applies to a group of four consecutive PWM generators, as indicated by
 
\family typewriter 
<channel-range>
\family default 
.
 Minimum is 153Hz, maximum is 500KHz.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
(
\noun on 
float
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.pwm.<channel>.scale 
\family default 
-- Scaling for PWM generator.
 If 
\family typewriter 
scale
\family default 
 is X, then the duty cycle will be 100% when the 
\family typewriter 
value
\family default 
 pin is X (or -X).
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
(
\noun on 
float
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.pwm.<channel>.max-dc 
\family default 
-- Maximum duty cycle, from 0.0 to 1.0.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
(
\noun on 
float
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.pwm.<channel>.min-dc 
\family default 
-- Minimum duty cycle, from 0.0 to 1.0.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
(
\noun on 
float
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.pwm.<channel>.duty-cycle 
\family default 
-- Actual duty cycle (used mostly for troubleshooting.)
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
(
\noun on 
bit
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.pwm.<channel>.bootstrap 
\family default 
-- If true, the PWM generator will generate a short sequence of pulses of
 both polarities when it is enabled, to charge the bootstrap capacators
 used on some MOSFET gate drivers.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
(
\noun on 
u32
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.stepgen.<channel-range>.setup-time 
\family default 
-- Sets minimum time between direction change and step pulse, in units of
 100nS.
 Applies to a group fof four consecutive PWM generators, as indicated by
 
\family typewriter 
<channel-range>
\family default 
.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
(
\noun on 
u32
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.stepgen.<channel-range>.pulse-width 
\family default 
-- Sets width of step pulses, in units of 100nS.
 Applies to a group fof four consecutive PWM generators, as indicated by
 
\family typewriter 
<channel-range>
\family default 
.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
(
\noun on 
u32
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.stepgen.<channel-range>.pulse-space-min 
\family default 
-- Sets minimum time between pulses, in units of 100nS.
 The maximum step rate is 1/( 100nS * (
\family typewriter 
 pulse-width
\family default 
 +
\family typewriter 
 pulse-space-min
\family default 
 )).
 Applies to a group fof four consecutive PWM generators, as indicated by
 
\family typewriter 
<channel-range>
\family default 
.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
(
\noun on 
float
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.stepgen.<channel>.scale 
\family default 
-- Scaling for step pulse generator.
 The step frequency in Hz is the absolute value of 
\family typewriter 
velocity
\family default 
 * 
\family typewriter 
scale
\family default 
.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
(
\noun on 
float
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.stepgen.<channel>.max-vel 
\family default 
-- The maximum value for 
\family typewriter 
velocity
\family default 
.
 Commands greater than 
\family typewriter 
max-vel
\family default 
 will be clamped.
 Also applies to negative values.
 (The absolute value is clamped.)
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
(
\noun on 
float
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.stepgen.<channel>.frequency 
\family default 
-- Actual step pulse frequency in Hz (used mostly for troubleshooting.)
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
(
\noun on 
bit
\noun default 
) ppmc.<port>.out.<channel>-invert 
\family default 
-- Inverts a digital output, see canonical digital output.
\layout Subsection

Functions
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(funct) 
\noun default 
ppmc.<port>.read
\family default 
 -- Reads all inputs (digital inputs and encoder counters) on one port.
\layout Itemize


\family typewriter 
\noun on 
(funct) 
\noun default 
ppmc.<port>.write 
\family default 
-- Writes all outputs (digital outputs, stepgens, PWMs) on one port.
\the_end
