#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass book
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[plainpages=false,pdfpagelabels,colorlinks=true,linkcolor=blue]{hyperref}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme bookman
\graphics default
\float_placement !!h
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single 
\papersize Custom
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\paperwidth 8.5in
\paperheight 11in
\leftmargin 1.2in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 0.6in
\bottommargin 0.6in
\secnumdepth 5
\tocdepth 5
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Chapter

INI Configuration
\layout Section

Files Used for Configuration
\layout Standard

The EMC is configured with human readable text files.
 All of these files can be read and edited in any of the common text file
 editors available with most any Linux distribution.
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

Don't confuse a text editor with a word processor.
 A text editor like gedit or kwrite produce files that are plain text.
 They also produce lines of text that are separated from each other.
 A word processor like Open Office produce files with paragraphs and word
 wrapping and lots of embedded codes that control font size and such.
 A text editor does none of this.
\end_inset 

 You'll need to be a bit careful when you edit these files.
 Some mistakes will cause the startup to fail.
 These files are read whenever the software starts up.
 Some of them are read repeatedly while the CNC is running.
 
\layout Standard

Configuration files include
\layout Description

INI
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{INI}

\end_inset 

 The ini file overrides defaults that are compiled into the EMC code.
 It also provides sections that are read directly by the Hardware Abstraction
 Layer.
\layout Description

HAL
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{HAL}

\end_inset 

 The hal files start up process modules and provide linkages between EMC
 signals and specific hardware pins.
\layout Description

VAR
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{VAR}

\end_inset 

 The var file provide a set of numbered variables (
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

parameters
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

) for use by the interpreter.
 These values are saved from one run to another.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:Parameters}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Description

TBL
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{TBL}

\end_inset 

 The tbl file saves tool information.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:Tool-File}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Description

NML
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{NML}

\end_inset 

 The nml file configures the communication channels used by the EMC.
 It is normally setup to run all of the communication within a single computer
 but can be modified to communicate between several computers.
\layout Description

.emcrc
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{.emcrc}

\end_inset 

 This file saves user specific information and is created to save the name
 of the directory when the user first selects an EMC configuration.
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

Usually this file is in the users home directory (e.g.
 /home/user/ )
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Items marked 
\series bold 
\noun on 
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 are used only by the sample HAL files and are suggested as a good convention.
 Other items are used by EMC directly, and must always have the section
 and item names given.
\layout Section

The INI File Layout
\layout Standard

A typical INI file follows a rather simple layout that includes;
\layout Itemize

comments.
\layout Itemize

sections, 
\layout Itemize

variables.
\layout Standard

Each of these elements is separated on single lines.
 Each end of line or newline character creates a new element.
 
\layout Subsection

Comments
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{Comments}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

A comment line is started with a ; or a # mark.
 When the ini reader sees either of these marks at the start a line, the
 rest of the line is ignored by the software.
 Comments can be used to describe what some INI element will do.
 
\layout LyX-Code

; This is my little mill configuration file.
\newline 
; I set it up on January 12, 2006
\layout Standard

Comments can also be used to select between several values of a single variable.
 
\layout LyX-Code

# DISPLAY = tkemc
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{tkemc}

\end_inset 


\newline 
DISPLAY = axis
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{AXIS}

\end_inset 


\newline 
# DISPLAY = mini
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{mini}

\end_inset 


\newline 
# DISPLAY = keystick
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{keystick}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

In this list, the DISPLAY
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{DISPLAY}

\end_inset 

 variable will be set to axis because all of the others are commented out.
 If someone carelessly edits a list like this and leaves two of the lines
 uncommented, the first one encountered will be used.
\layout Standard

Note that inside a variable, the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

#
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

;
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 characters do not denote comments:
\layout LyX-Code

INCORRECT = value     # and a comment
\layout Subsection

Sections
\layout Standard

Related parts of an ini file are separated into sections.
 A section line looks like [THIS_SECTION].
 The name of the section is enclosed in brackets.
 The order of sections is unimportant.
 The following sections are used by emc:
\layout Itemize

[EMC] general information (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:[EMC]-Section}

\end_inset 

)
\layout Itemize

[DISPLAY] settings related to the graphical user interface (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:[DISPLAY]-Section}

\end_inset 

)
\layout Itemize

[RS274NGC] settings used by the g-code interpreter
\layout Itemize

[EMCMOT] settings used by the realtime motion controller (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:[EMCMOT]-Section}

\end_inset 

)
\layout Itemize

[HAL] specifies .hal files (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:[HAL]-section}

\end_inset 

)
\layout Itemize

[TASK] settings used by the task controller (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:[TASK]-Section}

\end_inset 

)
\layout Itemize

[TRAJ] additional settings used by the realtime motion controller (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:[TRAJ]-Section}

\end_inset 

)
\layout Itemize

[AXIS_0] ...
 [AXIS_n] individual axis variables (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:[AXIS]-Section}

\end_inset 

)
\layout Itemize

[EMCIO] settings used by the I/O Controller (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:[EMCIO]-Section}

\end_inset 

)
\layout Subsection

Variables
\layout Standard

A variable line is made up of a variable name, an equals sign(=), and a
 value.
 
\color black
Everything from the first non-whitespace character after the = up to the
 end of the line is passed as the value, so you can embed spaces in string
 symbols if you want to or need to.
 A variable name is often called a keyword.
\layout Standard


\color black
The following sections detail each section of the configuration file, using
 sample values for the configuration lines.
\layout Standard

Some of the variables are used by EMC, and must always use the section names
 and variable names shown.
 Other variables are used only by HAL, and the section names and variable
 names shown are those used in the sample configuration files.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:INI-Detail}

\end_inset 

INI Variable Definitions
\layout Subsection


\color black
[EMC] Section
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:[EMC]-Section}

\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{EMC (inifile section)}

\end_inset 


\layout Description


\color black
VERSION\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
$Revision:
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
1.3
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
$
\series default 
 The version number for the INI file.
 The value shown here looks odd because it is automatically updated when
 using the Revision Control System.
 It's a good idea to change this number each time you revise your file.
 If you want to edit this manually just change the number and leave the
 other tags alone.
 
\layout Description


\color black
MACHINE\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
My
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
Controller
\series default 
 This is the name of the controller, which is printed out at the top of
 most graphical interfaces.
 You can put whatever you want here as long as you make it a single line
 long.
\layout Description


\color black
RS274NGC_STARTUP_CODE
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{RS274NGC STARTUP CODE}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
G21
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
G90
\series default 
 A string of NC codes that the interpreter is initialized with.
 This is not a substitute for specifying modal g-codes at the top of each
 ngc file, beacause the modal codes of machines differ, and may be changed
 by g-code interpreted earlier in the session.
\layout Subsection


\color black
[DISPLAY] Section
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:[DISPLAY]-Section}

\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{DISPLAY (inifile section)}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Different user interface programs use different options, and not every option
 is supported by every user interface.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
\color black
DISPLAY\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
tkemc
\series default 
 The name of the user interface to use.
 Valid options may include:
\layout Itemize

axis
\layout Itemize


\color black
keystick
\layout Itemize

mini
\layout Itemize


\color black
tkemc
\layout Itemize


\color black
xemc
\layout Description

POSITION_OFFSET\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
RELATIVE The coordinate system (RELATIVE or MACHINE) to
 show when the user interface starts.
 The RELATIVE coordinate system reflects the G92 and G5x coordinate offsets
 currently in effect.
\layout Description

POSITION_FEEDBACK\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
ACTUAL The coordinate value (COMMANDED or ACTUAL) to show
 when the user interface starts.
 The COMMANDED position is the ideal position requested by emc.
 The ACTUAL position is the feedback position of the motors.
\layout Description

MAX_FEED_OVERRIDE\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
1.2 The maximum feed override the user may select.
 1.2 means 120% of the programmed feed rate
\layout Description

MIN_SPINDLE_OVERRIDE\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
0.5 The minimum spindle override the user may select.
 0.5 means 50% of the programmed spindle speed.
 (This is useful as it's dangerous to run a program with a too low spindle
 speed).
\layout Description

MAX_SPINDLE_OVERRIDE\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
1.0 The maximum spindle override the user may select.
 1.0 means 100% of the programmed spindle speed
\layout Description

PROGRAM_PREFIX\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
~/emc2/nc_files The default location for g-code files and
 the location for user-defined M-codes
\layout Description

INCREMENTS\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
1\SpecialChar ~
mm,\SpecialChar ~
.5\SpecialChar ~
mm,\SpecialChar ~
\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 Defines the increments available for incremental jogs.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{DISPLAY-INCREMENTS}

\end_inset 

 for more information.
 Only in the AXIS user interface
\layout Description

INTRO_GRAPHIC\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
emc2.gif The image shown on the splash screen
\layout Description

INTRO_TIME\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
5 The maximum time to show the splash screen
\layout Subsection


\color black
[EMCMOT] Section
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:[EMCMOT]-Section}

\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{EMCMOT (inifile section)}

\end_inset 


\layout Description

BASE_PERIOD
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{BASE PERIOD}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
50000 
\series bold 
\noun on 
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Base
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 task period, in nanoseconds - this is the fastest thread in the machine.
\newline 
On servo-based systems, there is generally no reason for 
\series bold 
BASE_PERIOD
\series default 
 to be smaller than 
\series bold 
SERVO_PERIOD
\series default 
.
 
\newline 
On machines with software step generation, the 
\series bold 
BASE_PERIOD
\series default 
 determines the maximum number of steps per second.
 In the absence of long step length and step space requirements, the absolute
 maximum step rate is one step per 
\series bold 
BASE_PERIOD
\series default 
.
 Thus, the 
\series bold 
BASE_PERIOD
\series default 
 shown above gives an absolute maximum step rate of 20000 steps per second.
 50000ns is a fairly conservative value.
 The smallest usable value is related to the Latency Test result (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Latency-Test}

\end_inset 

), the necessary step length, and the processor speed.
\newline 
Choosing a BASE_PERIOD that is too low can lead to the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Unexpected realtime delay
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 message, lockups, or spontaneous reboots.
\layout Description

SERVO_PERIOD
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{SERVO PERIOD}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
1000000 
\series bold 
\noun on 
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Servo
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 task period is also in nanoseconds.
 This value will be rounded to an integer multiple of 
\series bold 
BASE_PERIOD
\series default 
.
 This value is used even on systems based on stepper motors.
\newline 
This is the rate at which new motor positions are computed, following error
 is checked, PID output values are updated, and so on.
\newline 
Most systems will not need to change this value.
 It is the update rate of the low level motion planner.
\layout Description

TRAJ_PERIOD
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{TRAJ PERIOD}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
1000000 
\noun on 
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 
\series bold 
Traj
\series default 
ectory Planner task period in nanoseconds This value will be rounded to
 an integer multiple of 
\series bold 
SERVO_PERIOD
\series default 
.
\newline 
Except for machines with unusual kinematics (e.g., hexapods) there is no reason
 to make this value larger than 
\series bold 
SERVO_PERIOD
\series default 
.
\layout Subsection

[TASK] Section
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:[TASK]-Section}

\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{TASK (inifile section)}

\end_inset 


\layout Description

CYCLE_TIME\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
0.0
\series default 
01 The period, in seconds, at which EMCTASK will run.
 This parameter affects the polling interval when waiting for motion to
 complete, when executing a pause instruction, and when accepting a command
 from a user interface.
 There is usually no need to change this number.
\layout Subsection

[HAL] section
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:[HAL]-section}

\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{HAL (inifile section)}

\end_inset 


\layout Description

HALFILE\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
example.hal Execute the file 'example.hal' at startup.
 If 
\series bold 
HALFILE
\series default 
 is specified multiple times, the files are executed in the order they appear
 in the inifile.
 Almost all configurations will have at least one 
\series bold 
HALFILE
\series default 
, and stepper systems typically have two such files, one which specifies
 the generic stepper configuration (
\family typewriter 
core_stepper.hal
\family default 
) and one which specifies the machine pinout (
\family typewriter 
xxx_pinout.hal
\family default 
)
\layout Description

HAL\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
command
\emph on 
 
\emph default 
Execute 'command' as a single hal command.
 If 
\series bold 
HAL
\series default 
 is specified multiple times, the commands are executed in the order they
 appear in the inifile.
 
\series bold 
HAL
\series default 
 lines are executed after all 
\series bold 
HALFILE
\series default 
 lines.
\layout Description

SHUTDOWN\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
shutdown.hal Execute the file 'shutdown.hal' when emc is exiting.
 Depending on the hardware drivers used, this may make it possible to set
 outputs to defined values when emc is exited normally.
 However, because there is no guarantee this file will be executed (for
 instance, in the case of a computer crash) it is not a replacement for
 a proper physical estop chain or other protections against software failure.
\layout Description

POSTGUI_HALFILE\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
example2.hal 
\emph on 
(Only with the AXIS GUI)
\emph default 
 Execute 'example2.hal' after the GUI has created its HAL pins.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:Physical-jog-wheels}

\end_inset 

 for more information.
\layout Subsection


\color black
[TRAJ] Section
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:[TRAJ]-Section}

\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{TRAJ (inifile section)}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\color black
The [TRAJ] section contains general parameters for the trajectory planning
 module in EMCMOT.
 You will not need to change these if you are applying EMC to a common three
 axis mill in the United States of America.
 If you are in an area using metric hardware components you might be working
 with the stepper_mm.ini where these numbers are already setup for that system
 of units.
\layout Description


\color black
COORDINATES\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
X
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~
Y
\series bold 
\SpecialChar ~
Z
\series default 
 The names of the axes being controlled.
 X, Y, Z, A, B, C, U, V, and W are all valid.
 Only axis named in 
\series bold 
COORDINATES
\series default 
 are accepted in g-code.
 This has no effect on the mapping from G-code axis names (X- Y- Z-) to
 joint numbers--for 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

trivial kinematics
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, X is always joint 0, A is always joint 4, and U is always joint 7, and
 so on.
 It is permitted to write an axis name twice (e.g., X Y Y Z for a gantry machine)
 but this has no effect.
\layout Description


\noun on 
\color black
AXES\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
3
\noun default 
 One more than the number of the highest joint number in the system.
 For an XYZ machine, the joints are numbered 0, 1 and 2; in this case AXES
 should be 3.
 For an XYUV machine using 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

trivial kinematics
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

, the V joint is numbered 7 and therefore AXES should be 8.
 For a machine with nontrivial kinematics (e.g., scarakins) this will generally
 be the number of controlled joints.
\layout Description


\color black
HOME\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
0
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
0
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
0 
\series default 
Coordinates of the homed position of each axis.
 Again for a fourth axis you will need 0 0 0 0.
 This value is only used for machines with nontrivial kinematics.
 On machines with trivial kinematics this value is ignored.
\layout Description


\color black
LINEAR_UNITS
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{LINEAR UNITS}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~
<units>
\series bold 
 
\series default 
The name of units to be used in the inifile.
 Possible choices are (in, inch, imperial, metric, mm).
 
\newline 
This does not affect the linear units in NC code (the G20 and G21 words
 do this).
 
\layout Description


\color black
ANGULAR_UNITS
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{ANGULAR UNITS}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~
<units> The name of units used in the inifile.
 Possible choices are 'deg', 'degree' (360 per circle), 'rad', 'radian'
 (2pi per circle), 'grad', or 'gon' (400 per circle).
\newline 
This does not affect the angular units of NC code.
 In RS274NGC, A-, B- and C- words are always expressed in degrees.
\layout Description


\color black
DEFAULT_VELOCITY\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
0.0167
\series default 
 The initial rate for jogs of linear axes, in units per second.
 The value shown equals one unit per minute.
\layout Description


\color black
DEFAULT_ACCELERATION\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
2.0
\series default 
 In machines with nontrivial kinematics, the acceleration used for 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

teleop
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 (cartesian space) jogs, in user units per second per second.
 
\layout Description


\color black
MAX_VELOCITY
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{MAX VELOCITY}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
5.0
\series default 
 The maximum velocity for any axis or coordinated move, in user units per
 second.
 The value shown equals 300 units per minute.
\layout Description


\color black
MAX_ACCELERATION
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{MAX ACCELERATION}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
20.0
\series default 
 The maximum acceleration for any axis or coordinated axis move, in user
 units per second per second.
\layout Description

POSITION_FILE\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
position.txt If set to a non-empty value, the joint positions
 are stored between runs in this file.
 This allows the machine to start with the same coordinates it had on shutdown.
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

This assumes there was no movement of the machine while powered off.
 It helps on smaller machines without home switches.
\end_inset 

 If unset, joint positions are not stored and will begin at 0 each time
 emc is started.
\layout Subsection


\color black
[AXIS_<num>] Section
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:[AXIS]-Section}

\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{AXIS (inifile section)}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard


\color black
The [AXIS_0], [AXIS_1], etc.
 sections contains general parameters for the individual components in the
 axis control module.
 The axis section names begin numbering at 0, and run through the number
 of axes specified in the [TRAJ] AXES entry minus 1.
\layout Description


\color black
TYPE\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
LINEAR The type of axes, either LINEAR or ANGULAR.
\layout Description

UNITS
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{UNITS}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
inch This setting overrides the related [TRAJ] UNITS setting if it is specified.
 (e.g., [TRAJ]LINEAR_UNITS if the TYPE of this axis is LINEAR, [TRAJ]ANGULAR_UNITS
 if the TYPE of this axis is ANGULAR)
\layout Description

MAX_VELOCITY\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
1.2 Maximum velocity for this axis in UNITS per second.
\layout Description

MAX_ACCELERATION\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
20.0
\series default 
 Maximum acceleration for this axis in UNITS per second squared.
\layout Description

BACKLASH\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
0.000
\series default 
 Backlash compensation value can be used to make up for small deficiencies
 in the hardware used to drive an axis.
\layout Description

COMP_FILE\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
file.extension A file holding a compensation structure for the
 specific axis.
 The values inside are triplets of nominal, forward and reverse positions
 which correspond to the nominal position (where it should be), forward
 (where the axis is while travelling forward) and reverse (where the axis
 is while travelling back).
 One set of triplets per line.
 Currently the limit inside EMC2 is for 256 triplets / axis.
 If COMP_FILE is specified, BACKLASH is ignored.
\layout Description

COMP_FILE_TYPE\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
1 Specifying a non-zero value changes the expected format
 of the COMP_FILE.
 For COMP_FILE_TYPE of zero, the values are triplets for nominal, forward
 & reverse.
 Otherwise, the values in the COMP_FILE are nominal, forward_trim and reverse_tr
im.
 These correspond to the nominal, nominal-forward and nominal-reverse defined
 above.
\layout Description


\color black
MIN_LIMIT
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{MIN LIMIT}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
-1000 
\series default 
The minimum limit (soft limit) for axis motion, in user units.
 When this limit is exceeded, the controller aborts axis motion.
 
\layout Description


\color black
MAX_LIMIT
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{MAX LIMIT}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
1000
\series default 
 The maximum limit (soft limit) for axis motion, in user units.
 When this limit is exceeded, the controller aborts axis motion.
 
\layout Description

MIN_FERROR
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{MIN FERROR}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
0.010
\series default 
 This is the value by which the axis is permitted to deviate from commanded
 position at very low speeds.
 If MIN_FERROR is smaller than FERROR, the two produce a ramp of error trip
 points.
 You could think of this as a graph where one dimension is speed and the
 other is permitted following error.
 As speed increases the amount of following error also increases toward
 the FERROR value.
 
\layout Description


\color black
FERROR
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{FERROR}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
1.0 
\series default 
FERROR is the maximum allowable following error, in user units.
 If the difference between commanded and sensed position exceeds this amount,
 the controller disables servo calculations, sets all the outputs to 0.0,
 and disables the amplifiers.
 If MIN_FERROR is present in the .ini file, velocity-proportional following
 errors are used.
 Here, the maximum allowable following error is proportional to the speed,
 with FERROR applying to the rapid rate set by [TRAJ]MAX_VELOCITY, and proportio
nally smaller following errors for slower speeds.
 The maximum allowable following error will always be greater than MIN_FERROR.
 This prevents small following errors for stationary axes from inadvertently
 aborting motion.
 Small following errors will always be present due to vibration, etc.
 The following polarity values determine how inputs are interpreted and
 how outputs are applied.
 They can usually be set via trial-and-error since there are only two possibilit
ies.
 The EMCMOT utility program USRMOT can be used to set these interactively
 and verify their results so that the proper values can be put in the INI
 file with a minimum of trouble.
 
\layout Subsubsection

Homing-related items
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:Homing-related-items}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

The next few parameters are Homing related, for a better explanation read
 Section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Homing}

\end_inset 


\layout Description

HOME_OFFSET\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
0.0
\series default 
 The axis position of the home switch or index pulse.
\layout Description

HOME_SEARCH_VEL
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{HOME SEARCH VEL}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
0.0
\series default 
 A value of zero means assume that the current location is the home position
 for the machine.
 If your machine has no home switches you will want to leave this value
 alone.
\layout Description

HOME_LATCH_VEL\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
0.0
\series default 
 This is the final velocity to be used during a home sequence.
\layout Description

HOME_USE_INDEX\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
NO
\series default 
 If the encoder used for this axis has an index pulse, and the motion card
 has provision for this signal you may set it to yes.
 When it is yes, it will affect the kind of home pattern used.
\layout Description

HOME_IGNORE_LIMITS\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
NO
\series default 
 Some machines use a limit switch as a home switch.
 This variable should be set to yes if you machine does this.
\layout Subsubsection

Servo-related items
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:Servo-related-items}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

The following items are for servo-based systems and servo-like systems including
 the univstep board from Pico Systems.
 
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

Refer to the the EMC2_Integrator_Manual for further information about servo
 systems and PID control.
\end_inset 


\layout Description


\color black
P\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
50
\series default 
 
\series bold 
\noun on 
\color default
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 
\color black
The proportional gain for the axis servo.
 This value multiplies the error between commanded and actual position in
 user units, resulting in a contribution to the computed voltage for the
 motor amplifier.
 The units on the P gain are volts per user unit.
 
\layout Description


\color black
I\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
0
\series default 
 
\series bold 
\noun on 
\color default
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 
\color black
The integral gain for the axis servo.
 The value multiplies the cumulative error between commanded and actual
 position in user units, resulting in a contribution to the computed voltage
 for the motor amplifier.
 The units on the I gain are volts per user unit-seconds.
 
\layout Description


\color black
D\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
0
\series default 
 
\series bold 
\noun on 
\color default
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 
\color black
The derivative gain for the axis servo.
 The value multiplies the difference between the current and previous errors,
 resulting in a contribution to the computed voltage for the motor amplifier.
 The units on the D gain are volts per user unit per second.
 
\layout Description


\color black
FF0\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
0
\series default 
 
\series bold 
\noun on 
\color default
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 
\color black
The 0-th order feedforward gain.
 This number is multiplied by the commanded position, resulting in a contributio
n to the computed voltage for the motor amplifier.
 The units on the FF0 gain are volts per user unit.
 
\layout Description


\color black
FF1\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
0
\series default 
 
\series bold 
\noun on 
\color default
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 
\color black
The 1st order feedforward gain.
 This number is multiplied by the change in commanded position per second,
 resulting in a contribution to the computed voltage for the motor amplifier.
 The units on the FF1 gain are volts per user unit per second.
 
\layout Description


\color black
FF2\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
0
\series default 
 
\series bold 
\noun on 
\color default
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 
\color black
The 2nd order feedforward gain.
 This number is multiplied by the change in commanded position per second
 per second, resulting in a contribution to the computed voltage for the
 motor amplifier.
 The units on the FF1 gain are volts per user unit per second per second.
 
\layout Description

OUTPUT_SCALE\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
1.000
\layout Description

OUTPUT_OFFSET\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
0.000
\series default 
\color black
 
\series bold 
\noun on 
\color default
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 
\color black
These two values are the scale and offset factors for the axis output to
 the motor amplifiers.
 The second value (offset) is subtracted from the computed output (in volts),
 and divided by the first value (scale factor), before being written to
 the D/A converters.
 The units on the scale value are in true volts per DAC output volts.
 The units on the offset value are in volts.
 These can be used to linearize a DAC.
 
\newline 
Specifically, when writing outputs, the EMC first converts the desired output
 in quasi-SI units to raw actuator values, e.g., volts for an amplifier DAC.
 This scaling looks like: 
\begin_inset Formula \[
raw=\frac{{output-offset}}{scale}\]

\end_inset 

 The value for scale can be obtained analytically by doing a unit analysis,
 i.e., units are [output SI units]/[actuator units].
 For example, on a machine with a velocity mode amplifier such that 1 volt
 results in 250 mm/sec velocity, 
\begin_inset Formula \[
amplifier[volts]=(output[\frac{mm}{sec}]-offset[\frac{mm}{sec}])/250\frac{mm}{sec\, volt}\]

\end_inset 

 Note that the units of the offset are in user units, e.g., mm/sec, and they
 are pre-subtracted from the sensor readings.
 The value for this offset is obtained by finding the value of your output
 which yields 0.0 for the actuator output.
 If the DAC is linearized, this offset is normally 0.0.
 
\newline 
The scale and offset can be used to linearize the DACs as well, resulting
 in values that reflect the combined effects of amplifier gain, DAC non-linearit
y, DAC units, etc.
 To do this, follow this procedure: 
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate


\color black
Build a calibration table for the output, driving the DACs with a desired
 voltage and measuring the result.
 See table\SpecialChar ~

\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{cap:Output-Voltage-Measurements}

\end_inset 

 for an example of voltage measurements.
\layout Enumerate


\color black
Do a least-squares linear fit to get coefficients a, b such that
\begin_inset Formula \[
meas=a*raw+b\]

\end_inset 


\layout Enumerate


\color black
Note that we want raw output such that our measured result is identical
 to the commanded output.
 This means 
\begin_deeper 
\layout Enumerate


\begin_inset Formula \[
cmd=a*raw+b\]

\end_inset 


\layout Enumerate


\begin_inset Formula \[
raw=(cmd-b)/a\]

\end_inset 


\end_deeper 
\layout Enumerate


\color black
As a result, the a and b coefficients from the linear fit can be used as
 the scale and offset for the controller directly.
 
\end_deeper 
\layout Description


\color black
MAX_OUTPUT\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
10 
\noun on 
\color default
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 
\color black
The maximum value for the output of the PID compensation that is written
 to the motor amplifier, in volts.
 The computed output value is clamped to this limit.
 The limit is applied before scaling to raw output units.
 
\layout Description


\color black
MIN_OUTPUT\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
-10 
\series bold 
\noun on 
\color default
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 
\color black
The minimum value for the output of the PID compensation that is written
 to the motor amplifier, in volts.
 The computed output value is clamped to this limit.
 The limit is applied before scaling to raw output units.
 
\layout Standard


\begin_inset Float table
wide false
collapsed false

\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{cap:Output-Voltage-Measurements}

\end_inset 

Output Voltage Measurements
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="3" rows="7" columns="2">
<features>
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" width="0">
<column alignment="center" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="0">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
Raw
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
Measured
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
-10
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
-9.93
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
-9
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
-8.83
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
0
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
-0.03
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
1
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
0.96
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
9
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
9.87
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true">
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
10
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" usebox="none">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard


\family roman 
\series medium 
\shape up 
\size normal 
\emph off 
\bar no 
\noun off 
\color none
10.87
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\end_inset 


\layout Description


\color black
INPUT_SCALE
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{INPUT SCALE}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
40000
\series default 
\color default
 
\series bold 
\noun on 
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 Specifies the number of pulses that corresponds to a move of one UNIT.
 A second number, if specified, is ignored.
\color black

\newline 
The value for scale can be obtained by doing a unit analysis, i.e., units
 are
\begin_inset Formula \[
\frac{sensor\, units}{desired\, input\, SI\, units}\]

\end_inset 

For example, on a 2000 counts per rev encoder
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{encoder}

\end_inset 

, and 10 revs/inch gearing, and desired units of mm, we have
\begin_inset Formula \begin{eqnarray*}
input\_ scale & = & 2000\frac{counts}{rev}*10\frac{rev}{inch}*\frac{1\, inch}{25.4\, mm}\\
 & = & 787.40157\frac{counts}{mm}\end{eqnarray*}

\end_inset 


\layout Subsubsection

Stepper-related items
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:Stepper-related-items}

\end_inset 


\layout Description


\color black
SCALE
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{INPUT SCALE}

\end_inset 

\SpecialChar ~
=\SpecialChar ~
40000
\color default
 
\series bold 
\noun on 
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 Specifies the number of pulses that corresponds to a move of one UNIT.
 For stepper systems, this is the number of step pulses issued per UNIT.
 For servo systems, this is the number of feedback pulses per UNIT.
 A second number, if specified, is ignored.
\color black

\newline 
The value for scale can be obtained by doing a unit analysis, i.e., units
 are
\begin_inset Formula \[
\frac{step\, units}{desired\, input\, SI\, units}\]

\end_inset 

For example, on a 1.8 degree stepper motor with half-stepping, and 10 revs/inch
 gearing, and desired units of mm, we have
\begin_inset Formula \begin{eqnarray*}
input\_ scale & = & \frac{{2\, count}}{1.8\, degree}*10\frac{rev}{inch}*\frac{1\, inch}{25.4\, mm}\\
 & = & 157.48031\frac{counts}{mm}\end{eqnarray*}

\end_inset 

Older stepper configuration .ini and .hal used INPUT_SCALE for this value.
\layout Description

STEPGEN_MAXACCEL\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
21.0
\series default 
 
\series bold 
\noun on 
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 Acceleration limit for the step generator.
 This should be 1% to 10% larger than the axis MAX_ACCELERATION.
 This value improves the tuning of stepgen's 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

position loop
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
\layout Description

STEPGEN_MAXVEL\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
1.4
\series default 
 
\series bold 
\noun on 
(hal)
\series default 
\noun default 
 Older configuration files have a velocity limit for the step generator
 as well.

\series bold 
 
\series default 
If specified, it should also be 1% to 10% larger than the axis MAX_VELOCITY.
 Subsequent testing has shown that use of STEPGEN_MAXVEL does not improve
 the tuning of stepgen's position loop.
 
\layout Subsection

[EMCIO] Section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:[EMCIO]-Section}

\end_inset 


\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{EMCIO (inifile section)}

\end_inset 


\layout Description

CYCLE_TIME\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
0.100
\series default 
 The period, in seconds, at which EMCIO will run.
 Making it 0.0 or a negative number will tell EMCIO not to sleep at all.
 There is usually no need to change this number.
\layout Description

TOOL_TABLE\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=
\series default 
\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
tool.tbl
\series default 
 The file which contains tool information, described in 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:Tool-File}

\end_inset 


\layout Description

TOOL_CHANGE_POSITION\SpecialChar ~

\series bold 
=\SpecialChar ~
0\SpecialChar ~
0\SpecialChar ~
2
\series default 
 Specifies the XYZ location to move to when performing a tool change.
\the_end
