.TH MATRIX_KB "9" "2013-03-24" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NAME

matrix_kb \- perform functions related to the use of matrix keypads / keyboards.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B loadrt matrix_kb config=\fIRxCsk,RxCsk\fB... names=\fIname1,name2\fB...
.P
Creates a component configured for R rows and N columns of matrix keyboard. 

If the \fBk\fR option is added then keyboard codes will be sent to the OS. If the
\fBs\fR option is specified then a set of output rows will be cyclically toggled, and
a set of input columns will be scanned. 

The \fBnames\fR parameter is optional, but if used then the HAL pins and functions
will use the specified names rather than the default ones. This can be useful
for readbility and 2-pass HAL parsing. 

There must be no spaces in the parameter lists. 

.SH DESCRIPTION

The component can work in two ways, and the HAL pins created vary according to
mode. 

In the default mode the component expects to be given a scan code from a
separate driver. Most typically this will be the keypad scancode from a Mesa
7i73. The default codes for keyup and keydown are based on the Mesa 7i73 
specification with 0x40 indicating a keydown and 0x80 a keyup event. 
 If using the 7i73 it is important to match the keypad size
jumpers with the HAL component. Valid configs for the 7i73 are 4x8, 8x8, 4x8k 
and 8x8k. 

In the optional scan-generation mode the \fBmatrix_kb.\fIN\fB.keycode\fR pin changes to 
an output pin and a set of output row pins and input column pins are created. 
These need to be connected to physical inputs and outputs to scan the matrix and
return values to HAL. Note the \fBnegative-logic\fR parameter described below, this
will need to be set on the most common forms of inputs which float high when
unconnected.  

In both the above modes it is possible to add a\fBk\fR parameter to the config
string. In this mode a set of scan-code HAL parameters are created, and if
these are non-zero then the corresponding keyboard event codes are sent to the 
OS input system. This means that, for example, a HAL-connected numeric pad can
be used for data entry into the GUI. 

It is not recommended that this feature should be used to emulate keyboard
jogging or mapped to "ESC" for e-stop. There are far more appropriate HAL pins
for all these functions which are more reliably polled by the system. See for
example tha \fIhalui\fR documentation. 

The possible codes can be found in the file input.h in the Linux kernel headers,
or online
 https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/people/marcelo/linux-2.4/include/linux/input.h

In all modes a set of HAL output pins are created corresponding to each node of
the matrix.

.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
.B matrix_kb.\fIN\fR
Perform all requested functions. Should be run in a slow thread for effective
debouncing. 
.SH PINS
.TP
.B matrix_kb.\fIN\fB.col-\fICC\fB-in\fR bit in
The input pin corresponding to column C.
.TP
.B matrix_kb.\fIN\fB.key.r\fIR\fBc\fIC\fR bit out
The pin corresponding to the key at row R column C of the matrix. 
.TP
.B matrix_kb.\fIN\fB.keycode\fR unsigned in or out depending on mode. 
This pin should be connected to the scancode generator if hardware such as a 
7i73 is being used. In this mode it is an input pin. In the internally-generated
scanning mode this pin is an output, but will not normally be connected. 
.B matrix_kb.\fIN\fB.row-\fIRR\fB-out bit out
The row scan drive pins.Should be connected to external hardware pins connected
to the keypad. 

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B matrix_kb.\fIN\fB.code.r\fIR\fBc\fIC\fR unsigned r/w (default 0)
The scancode (from input.h) to be sent to the OS when the corresponding key is
is pressed. Only available in \fBk\fR mode. 
.TP
.B matrix_kb.\fIN\fB.key_rollover\fR unsigned r/w (default 2)
With most matrix keyboards the scancodes are only unambiguous with 1 or 2 keys
pressed. With more keys pressed phantom keystrokes can appear. Some keyboards
are optimised to reduce this problem, and some have internal diodes so that any
number of keys may be pressed simultaneously. Increase the value of this parameter
if such a keyboard is connected, or if phantom keystrokes are more acceptable
than only two keys being active at one time. 
.TP
.B matrix_kb.\fIN\fB.negative-logic\fR bit r/w (default 1)
When no keys are pressed a typical digital input will float high. The input will
then be pulled low by the keypad when the corresponding poll line is low.
Set this parameter to 0 if the IO in use requires one row at a time to be high,
and a high input corresponds to a button press. 


