.TH MESSAGE "9" "2011-11-17" "EMC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NAME

message \- Display a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B loadrt message [count=\fIN\fB|names=\fIname1\fB[,\fIname2...\fB]] [messages=\fIN\fB]
.RS 4
.TP
\fBmessages\fR
The messages to display. These should be listed,
comma-delimited, inside a single set of quotes. See the "Description" section
for an example.
If there are more messages than "count" or "names" then the excess will be
ignored. If there are fewer messages than "count" or "names" then an error will
be raised and EMC2 will exit.
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION

Allows HAL pins to trigger a message. Example hal commands:
 loadrt message names=oillow,oilpressure,inverterfail messages="Slideway oil low,No oil
pressure,Spindle inverter fault"
 addf oillow servo-thread
 addf oilpressure servo-thread
 addf inverterfail servo-thread
 
 setp oillow.edge 0 #this pin should be active low
 net no-oil classicladder.0.out-21 oillow.trigger
 net no-pressure classicladder.0.out-22 oilpressure.trigger
 net no-inverter classicladder.0.out-23 inverterfail.trigger
 
When any pin goes active, it's message will be displayed.
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
\fBmessage.\fIN\fB\fR
Display a message
.SH PINS
.TP
.B message.\fIN\fB.trigger\fR bit in \fR(default: \fIFALSE\fR)
signal that triggers the message
.TP
.B message.\fIN\fB.force\fR bit in \fR(default: \fIFALSE\fR)
A FALSE->TRUE transition forces the message to be
displayed again if the trigger is active
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.B message.\fIN\fB.edge\fR bit rw \fR(default: \fITRUE\fR)
Selects the desired edge: TRUE means falling, FALSE
means rising
.SH LICENSE

GPL v2
