.TH SETSERIAL "9" "2012-10-28" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NAME
setsserial - a utility for setting Smart Serial NVRAM parameters. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B loadrt setsserial cmd="set hm2_8i20.001f.nvmaxcurrent 750"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
None
.SH PINS
.TP
None
.SH USAGE

This utility should be used under halcmd, without LinuxCNC running or any
realtime threads running. 

A typical command sequence would be:

 halrun
 loadrt hostmot2 use_serial_numbers=1
 loadrt hm2_pci config="firmware=hm2/5i23/svss8_8.bit"
 show param
 loadrt setsserial cmd="set hm2_8i20.001f.nvmaxcurrent 750"
 exit
 
This example uses the option to have the hal pins and parameters labelled by 
the serial number of the remote. This is not necessary but can reduce the scope
for confusion. (The serial number is normally on a sticker on the device.) 

The next line loads the hm2_pci driver in the normal way. The hm2_7i43 driver
should work equally well, as should any future 7i80 driver. 
If the card has already been strted up and a firmware has been loaded, then 
the config string may be omitted. 

"show param" is optional, but provides a handy list of all the devices and 
parameters. It also shows the current values of the parameters which can be 
useful for determining scaling. u32 pin values are always shown in hex, but new
values can be entered in decimal or hex. Use the Ox123ABC format to enter a hex
value. 

The next line invokes setsserial. This is run in a slightly strange way in order
to have kernel-level access to a live Hostmot2 config. It is basically a 
HAL module that always fails to load. This may lead to error messages being
printed to the halcmd prompt. These can often be ignored. 
All the real feedback is via the dmesg command. It is suggested to have a second
terminal window open to run dmesg after each command. 

At the moment there is only one available command "set" which takes a parameter
name and a value as input. It is anticipated that this util will allow firmware
updates in the future. The "flash" commmand is accepted but does nothing. 

On exiting there will typically be a further error message related to the driver
failing to unload setsserial. This can be ignored.

The parameter changes will not show up until the drivers are reloaded.
//TODO// Add a "get" command to avoid this problem. 

.SH LICENSE

GPL
