.TH SIM_ENCODER "9" "2007-01-16" "EMC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NAME
sim_encoder \- simulated quadrature encoder
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBloadrt sim_encoder num_chan=\fInum\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsim_encoder\fR can generate quadrature signals as if from an encoder.
It also generates an index pulse once per revolution.  It is mostly used
for testing and simulation, to replace hardware that may not be available.
It has a limited maximum frequency, as do all software based pulse
generators.

.P
\fBsim_encoder\fR supports a maximum of eight channels.  The number of
channels actually loaded is set by the \fBnum_chan\fR argument when
the module is loaded.  If \fBnumchan\fR is not specified, the default
value is one.

.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP 
\fBsim-encoder.make-pulses\fR (no floating-point)
Generates the actual quadrature and index pulses.  Must be called as
frequently as possible, to maximize the count rate and minimize jitter.
Operates on all channels at once.
.TP 
\fBsim-encoder.update-speed\fR (uses floating-point)
Reads the \fBspeed\fR command and other parameters and converts the
data into a form that can be used by \fBmake-pulses\fR.  Changes take
effect only when \fBupdate-speed\fR runs.  Can (and should) be called
less frequently than \fBmake-pulses\fR.  Operates on all channels at
once.

.SH PINS
.TP
\fBsim-encoder.\fIN\fB.phase-A\fR bit out
One of the quadrature outputs.
.TP
\fBsim-encoder.\fIN\fB.phase-B\fR bit out
The other quadrature output.
.TP
\fBsim-encoder.\fIN\fB.phase-Z\fR bit out
The index pulse.
.TP
\fBsim-encoder.\fIN\fB.speed\fR float in
The desired speed of the encoder, in user units per per second.  This
is divided by \fBscale\fR, and the result is used as the encoder speed
in revolutions per second.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
\fBsim-encoder.\fIN\fB.ppr\fR u32 rw
The pulses per revolution of the simulated encoder.  Note that this
is pulses, not counts, per revolution.  Each pulse or cycle from the
encoder results in four counts, because every edge is counted.
Default value is 100 ppr, or 400 counts per revolution.
.TP
\fBsim-encoder.\fIN\fB.scale\fR float rw
Scale factor for the \fBspeed\fR input.  The \fBspeed\fR value is divided
by \fBscale\fR to get the actual encoder speed in revolutions per second.
For example, if \fBscale\fR is set to 60, then \fBspeed\fR is in revolutions
per minute (RPM) instead of revolutions per second.  The default value
is 1.00.

