\# Author Andy Pugh
\# Issued under the terms of the GPL v2 License or any later version
.TH SSERIAL "9" "2008-05-13" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..
.SH NAME

hostmot2 - Smart Serial LinuxCNC HAL driver for the Mesa Electronics HostMot2 
Smart-Serial remote cards
.SH SYNOPSIS
The Mesa Smart-Serial interface is a 2.5Mbs proprietary interface between the
Mesa Anything-IO cards and a range of subsidiary devices termed "smart-serial 
remotes".
The remote cards perform a variety of functions, but typically they combine 
various classes of IO. 
The remot cards are self-configuring, in that they tell the main LinuxCNC 
Hostmot2 driver what their pin functions are and what they should be named. 

Many sserial remotes offer different pinouts depending on the mode they are 
started up in. This is set using the sserial_port_N= option in the 
hm2_pci modparam. See the hostmot2 manpage for further details. 

It is likely that this documentation will be permanently out of date. 

Each Anything-IO board can attach up to 8 sserial remotes to each header 
(either the 5-pin headers on the 5i20/5i22/5i23/7i43 or the 25-pin connectors on
the 5i25, 6i25 and 7i80). The remotes are grouped into "ports" of up to 8
"channels". Typically each header will be a single 8 channel port, but this is
not necessarily always the case. 

.SH PORTS
In addition to the per-channel/device pins detailed below there are three
per-port pins and three parameters.

Pins:

(bit, in) .sserial.port\-N.run: Enables the specific Smart Serial module.
Setting this pin low will disable all boards on the port and puts the port in a
pass-through mode where device parameter setting is possible. It is necessary
to toggle the state of this pin if there is a requirement to alter a
remote parameter on a live system.
This pin defaults to TRUE and can be left unconnected. However, toggling the pin
low-to-high will re-enable a faulted drive so the pin could usefully be
connected to the iocontrol.0.user\-enable\-out pin.

(u32, ro) .run_state: Shows the state of the sserial communications state-machine.
This pin will generally show a value of 0x03 in normal operation, 0x07 in
setup mode and 0x00 when the "run" pin is false.

(u32, ro) .error\-count: Indicates the state of the Smart Serial error handler,
see the parameters sections for more details. 

Parameters:

(u32 r/w) .fault\-inc: Any over-run or handshaking error in the SmartSerial
communications will increment the .fault\-count pin by the amount specified by
this parameter. Default = 10.

(u32 r/w) .fault\-dec: Every successful read/write cycle decrements the fault
counter by this amount. Default = 1.

(u32 r/w) .fault\-lim: When the fault counter reaches this threshold the Smart
Serial interface on the corresponding port will be stopped and an error printed 
in dmesg. Together these three pins allow for control over the degree of fault-
tolerance allowed in the interface. The default values mean that if more than
one transaction in ten fails, more than 20 times, then a hard error will be
raised. If the increment were to be set to zero then no error would ever be
raised, and the system would carry on regardless. Conversely setting decrement to 
zero, threshold to 1 and limit to 1 means that absolutely no errors will be
tolerated. (This structure is copied directly from vehicle ECU practice)

Any other parameters than the ones above are created by the card istelf from
data in the remote firmware. They may be set in the HAL file using "setp" in
the usual way.

NOTE: Because a Smart-Serial remote can only communicate non-process data
to the host card in setup mode it is necessary to stop and re-start the
smart-serial port associated with the card to alter the value of a parameter.

HALSO NOTE: in the case of parameters beginning with "nv" (which are stored
in non-volatile memory) the effect will not be seen until after the next
power cycle of the drive.

Unchanged values will not be re-written so it is safe to leave the
"setp" commands in the HAL file or delete them as you see fit.

.SH DEVICES
The other pins and parameters created in HAL depend on the devices detected.
The following list of Smart Serial devices is by no means exhaustive. 

.TP
.SH 8i20
The 8i20 is a 2.2kW three-phase drive for brushless DC motors and AC servo
motors.
8i20 pins and parameters have names like
"hm2_\fI<BoardType>\fR.\fI<BoardNum>\fR.8i20.\fI<PortNum>\fR.\fI<ChanNum>\fR.\fI<Pin>\fR", for example
"hm2_5i23.0.8i20.1.3.current" would set the phase current for the drive
connected to the fourth channel of the second sserial port of the first 5i23
board. Note that the sserial ports do not necessarily correlate in layout or
number to the physical ports on the card.

Pins:

.TP
(float in) angle
The rotor angle of the motor in fractions of a full
\fBphase\fR revolution. An angle of 0.5 indicates that the motor is half a turn
/ 180 degrees / \[*p] radians from the zero position. The zero position is taken to
be the position that the motor adopts under no load with a poitive voltage
applied to the A (or U) phase and both B and C (or V and W) connected to \-V or
0V. A 6 pole motor will have 3 zero positions per physical rotation. Note that
the 8i20 drive automatically adds the phase lead/lag angle, and that this pin
should see the raw rotor angle. There is a HAL module (bldc) which handles the
complexity of differing motor and drive types.

.TP
(float, in) current
The phase current command to the drive. This is scaled
from \-1 to +1 for forwards and reverse maximum currents. The absolute value of
the current is set by the max_current parameter.

.TP
(float, ro) bus-voltage
The drive bus voltage in V. This will tend to show 25.6V
when the drive is unpowered and the drive will not operate below about 50V.

.TP
(float, ro) temp
The temperature of the driver in degrees C.

.TP
(u32, ro) comms
The communication status of the drive. See the manual for
more details.

.TP 
(bit, ro) status and fault. 
The following fault/status bits are exported. For further details see the
8i20 manual. 
fault.U\-current / fault.U\-current\-not
fault.V\-current / fault.V\-current\-not
fault.W\-current / fault.W\-current\-not
fault.bus\-high /  fault.bus\-high\-not
fault.bus\-overv / fault.bus\-overv\-not
fault.bus\-underv / fault.bus\-underv\-not
fault.framingr / fault.framingr\-not
fault.module / fault.module\-not
fault.no\-enable / fault.no\-enable\-not
fault.overcurrent / fault.overcurrent\-not
fault.overrun / fault.overrun\-not
fault.overtemp / fault.overtemp\-not
fault.watchdog / fault.watchdog\-not

status.brake\-old / status.brake\-old\-not
status.brake\-on / status.brake\-on\-not
status.bus\-underv / status.bus\-underv\-not
status.current\-lim / status.current\-lim\-no
status.ext\-reset / status.ext\-reset\-not
status.no\-enable / status.no\-enable\-not
status.pid\-on / status.pid\-on\-not
status.sw\-reset / status.sw\-reset\-not
status.wd\-reset / status.wd\-reset\-not

.TP
Parameters:
The following parameters are exported. See the pdf documentation downloadable
from Mesa for further details

 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.angle\-maxlim
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.angle\-minlim
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.angle\-scalemax
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.current\-maxlim
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.current\-minlim
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.current\-scalemax
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvbrakeoffv
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvbrakeonv
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvbusoverv
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvbusundervmax
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvbusundervmin
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvkdihi
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvkdil
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvkdilo
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvkdp
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvkqihi
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvkqil
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvkqilo
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvkqp
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvmaxcurrent
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.nvrembaudrate
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.swrevision
 hm2_5i25.0.8i20.0.1.unitnumber

.TP
(float, rw) max_current
Sets the maximum drive current in Amps. The default
value is the maximum current programmed into the drive EEPROM. The value must be
positive, and an error will be raised if a current in excess of the drive
maximum is requested.

.TP
(u32, ro) serial_number
The serial number of the connected drive. This is
also shown on the label on the drive.
.TP
.SH 7i64
The 7i64 is a 24-input 24-output IO card.
7i64 pins and parameters have names like "hm2_\fI<BoardType>\fR.\fI<BoardNum>\fR.7i64.
<PortNum>.<ChanNum>.<Pin>", for example hm2_5i23.0.7i64.1.3.output\-01

Pins:
(bit, in) 7i64.0.0.output\-NN: Writing a 1 or TRUE to this pin will enable output
driver NN. Note that the outputs are drivers (switches) rather than voltage
outputs. The LED adjacent to the connector on the board shows the status.
The output can be inverted by setting a parameter.

(bit, out) 7i64.0.0.input\-NN: The value of input NN. Note that the inputs are
isolated and both pins of each input must be connected (typically to signal and
the ground of the signal. This need not be the ground of the board.)

(bit, out)  7i64.0.0.input\-NN\-not: An inverted copy of the corresponding input.

(float, out) 7i64.0.0.analog0 & 7i64.0.0.analog1: The two analogue inputs 
(0 to 3.3V) on the board.

Parameters:
(bit, rw) 7i64.0.0.output\-NN\-invert: Setting this parameter to 1 / TRUE will invert
the output value, such that writing 0 to .gpio.NN.out will enable the output
and vice-versa.

.TP
.SH 7i76
The 7i76 is not only a smart-serial device. It also serves as a breakout for a
number of other Hostmot2 functions. There are connections for 5 step generators
(for which see the main hostmot2 manpage). The stepgen pins are associated with 
the 5i25 (hm2_5i25.0.stepgen.00....) whereas the smart-serial pins are 
associated with the 7i76 (hm2_5i25.0.7i76.0.0.output\-00).

Pins:

(float out) .7i76.0.0.analogN (modes 1 and 2 only) Analogue input values. 

(float out) .7i76.0.0.fieldvoltage (mode 2 only) Field voltage monitoring pin. 

(bit in) .7i76.0.0.spindir: This pin provides a means to drive the spindle VFD
direction terminals on the 7i76 board. 

(bit in) .7i76.0.0.spinena: This pin drives the spindle-enable terminals on the 
7i76 board.

(float in) .7i76.0.0.spinout: This controls the analogue output of the 7i76. 
This is intended as a speed control signal for a VFD. 

(bit out) .7i76.0.0.output\-NN: (NN = 0 to 15). 16 digital outputs. The sense of
the signal can be set via a parameter

(bit out) .7i76.0.0.input\-NN: (NN = 0 to 31) 32 digital inputs.

(bit in) .7i76.0.0.input\-NN\-not: (NN = 0 to 31) An inverted copy of the inputs
provided for convenience. The two complementary pins may be connected to 
different signal nets. 

Parameters:

(u32 ro) .7i76.0.0.nvbaudrate: Indicates the vbaud rate. This probably should 
not be altered.

(u32 ro) .7i76.0.0.nvunitnumber: Indicates the serial number of the device and
should match a sticker on the card. This can be useful for working out which
card is which.

(u32 ro) .7i76.0.0.nvwatchdogtimeout: The sserial remote watchdog timeout. This
is separate from the Anything-IO card timeout. This is unlikley to need to be 
changed. 

(bit rw) .7i76.0.0.output\-NN\-invert: Invert the sense of the corresponding
output pin. 

(bit rw) .7i76.0.0.spindir\-invert: Invert the senseof the spindle direction pin.

(bit rw) .7i76.0.0.spinena\-invert: Invert the sense of the spindle\-enable pin.

(float rw) .7i76.0.0.spinout\-maxlim: The maximum speed request allowable

(float rw) .7i76.0.0.spinout\-minlim: The minimum speed request.

(float rw) .7i76.0.0.spinout\-scalemax: The spindle speed scaling. This is the
speed request which would correspond to full-scale output from the spindle 
control pin. For example with a 10V drive voltage and a 10000rpm scalemax a
value of 10,000 rpm on the spinout pin would produce 10V output. However, if 
spinout\-maxlim were set to 5,000 rpm then no voltage above 5V would be output.

(u32 ro) .7i76.0.0.swrevision: The onboard firmware revision number. 
Utilities (man setsserial for details) exist to update and change this firmware.

.TP
.SH 7i77
The 7i77 is an 6-axis servo control card. The analogue outputs are smart-serial
devices but the encoders are conventional hostmot2 encoders and further details 
of them may be found in the hostmot2 manpage. 

Pins:
(bit out) .7i77.0.0.input\-NN: (NN = 0 to 31) 32 digital inputs.

(bit in) .7i77.0.0.input\-NN\-not: (NN = 0 to 31) An inverted copy of the inputs
provided for convenience. The two complementary pins may be connected to
different signal nets.

(bit out) .7i77.0.0.output\-NN: (NN = 0 to 15). 16 digital outputs. The sense of
the signal can be set via a parameter

(bit in) .7i77.0.0.spindir: This pin provides a means to drive the spindle VFD
direction terminals on the 7i76 board.

(bit in) .7i77.0.0.spinena: This pin drives the spindle-enable terminals on the 
7i76 board.

(float in) .7i77.0.0.spinout: This controls the analog output of the 7i77.
This is intended as a speed control signal for a VFD. 

(bit in) .7i77.0.1.analogena: This pin drives the analog enable terminals on the
7i77 board.

(float in) .7i77.0.1.analogoutN: (N = 0 to 5) This controls the analog output
of the 7i77.

Parameters:
(bit rw) .7i77.0.0.output\-NN\-invert: Invert the sense of the corresponding
output pin.

(bit rw) .7i77.0.0.spindir\-invert: Invert the sense of the spindle direction pin.

(bit rw) .7i77.0.0.spinena\-invert: Invert the sense of the spindle\-enable pin.

(float rw) .7i77.0.0.spinout\-maxlim: The maximum speed request allowable

(float rw) .7i77.0.0.spinout\-minlim: The minimum speed request.

(float rw) .7i77.0.0.spinout\-scalemax: The spindle speed scaling. This is the
speed request which would correspond to full-scale output from the spindle
control pin. For example with a 10V drive voltage and a 10000rpm scalemax a
value of 10,000 rpm on the spinout pin would produce 10V output. However, if
spinout\-maxlim were set to 5,000 rpm then no voltage above 5V would be output.

(float rw) .7i77.0.0.analogoutN\-maxlim: (N = 0 to 5) The maximum speed request
allowable

(float rw) .7i77.0.0.analogoutN\-minlim: (N = 0 to 5) The minimum speed request.

(float rw) .7i77.0.0.analogoutN\-scalemax: (N = 0 to 5) The analog speed scaling.
This is the speed request which would correspond to full-scale output from the
spindle control pin. For example with a 10V drive voltage and a 10000rpm scalemax a
value of 10,000 rpm on the spinout pin would produce 10V output. However, if
spinout\-maxlim were set to 5,000 rpm then no voltage above 5V would be output.


.TP
.SH 7i69
The 7i69 is a 48 channel digital IO card. It can be configured in four
different modes:
Mode 0 B 48 pins bidirectional (all outputs can be set high then driven low to 
work as inputs)
 Mode 1 48 pins, input only 
 Mode 2 48 pins, all outputs
 Mode 3 24 inputs and 24 outputs. 

Pins: 
(bit in) .7i69.0.0.output\-NN: Digital output. Sense can be inverted with
the corresponding Parameter

(bit out) .7i69.0.0.input\-NN: Digital input

(bit out) .7i69.0.0.input\-NN\-not: Digital input, inverted.

Parameters:

(u32 ro) .7i69.0.0.nvbaudrate: Indicates the vbaud rate. This probably should 
not be altered.

(u32 ro) .7i69.0.0.nvunitnumber: Indicates the serial number of the device and
should match a sticker on the card. This can be useful for working out which
card is which.

(u32 ro) .7i69.0.0.nvwatchdogtimeout: The sserial remote watchdog timeout. This
is separate from the Anything-IO card timeout. This is unlikley to need to be 
changed. 

(bit rw) .7i69.0.0.output\-NN\-invert: Invert the sense of the corresponding
output pin. 

(u32 ro) .7i69.0.0.swrevision: The onboard firmware revision number. 
Utilities exist to update and change this firmware.

.TP
.SH 7i70

The 7I70 is a remote isolated 48 input card. The 7I70 inputs sense positive 
inputs relative to a common field ground. Input impedance is 10K Ohms and input 
voltage can range from 5VDC to 32VDC. All inputs have LED status indicators. 
The input common field ground is galvanically isolated from the communications 
link.

The 7I70 has three software selectable modes. These different modes select 
different sets of 7I70 data to be transferred between the host and the 7I70 
during real time process data exchanges. For high speed applications, 
choosing the correct mode can reduced the data transfer sizes, resulting in 
higher maximum update rates.

 MODE 0 Input mode (48 bits input data only
 MODE 1 Input plus analog mode (48 bits input data plus 6 channels of analog data)
 MODE 2 Input plus field voltage
 
Pins: 

(float out) .7i70.0.0.analogN (modes 1 and 2 only) Analogue input values. 

(float out) .7i70.0.0.fieldvoltage (mode 2 only) Field voltage monitoring pin. 

(bit out) .7i70.0.0.input\-NN: (NN = 0 to 47) 48 digital inputs.

(bit in) .7i70.0.0.input\-NN\-not: (NN = 0 to 47) An inverted copy of the inputs
provided for convenience. The two complementary pins may be connected to 
different signal nets. 
 
Parameters:

(u32 ro) .7i70.0.0.nvbaudrate: Indicates the vbaud rate. This probably should 
not be altered.

(u32 ro) .7i70.0.0.nvunitnumber: Indicates the serial number of the device and
should match a sticker on the card. This can be useful for working out which
card is which.

(u32 ro) .7i70.0.0.nvwatchdogtimeout: The sserial remote watchdog timeout. This
is separate from the Anything-IO card timeout. This is unlikley to need to be 
changed. 

(u32 ro) .7i69.0.0.swrevision: The onboard firmware revision number. 
Utilities exist to update and change this firmware.

.TP
.SH 7i71

The 7I71 is a remote isolated 48 output card. The 48 outputs are 8VDC to 28VDC 
sourcing drivers (common + field power) with 300 mA maximum current capability. 
All outputs have LED status indicators.

The 7I71 has two software selectable modes. For high speed applications, 
choosing the correct mode can reduced the data transfer sizes, resulting in 
higher maximum update rates

 MODE 0 Output only mode (48 bits output data only) 
 MODE 1 Outputs plus read back field voltage


Pins: 

(float out) .7i71.0.0.fieldvoltage (mode 2 only) Field voltage monitoring pin. 

(bit out) .7i71.0.0.output\-NN: (NN = 0 to 47) 48 digital outputs. The sense may
be inverted by the invert parameter. 
 
Parameters:

(bit rw) .7i71.0.0.output\-NN\-invert: Invert the sense of the corresponding
output pin. 

(u32 ro) .7i71.0.0.nvbaudrate: Indicates the vbaud rate. This probably should 
not be altered.

(u32 ro) .7i71.0.0.nvunitnumber: Indicates the serial number of the device and
should match a sticker on the card. This can be useful for determining which
card is which.

(u32 ro) .7i71.0.0.nvwatchdogtimeout: The sserial remote watchdog timeout. This
is separate from the Anything-IO card timeout. This is unlikley to need to be 
changed. 

(u32 ro) .7i69.0.0.swrevision: The onboard firmware revision number. 
Utilities exist to update and change this firmware.

.TP
.SH 7i73
The 7I73 is a remote real time pendant or control panel interface. 

The 7I73 supports up to four 50KHz encoder inputs for MPGs, 8 digital inputs 
and 6 digital outputs and up to a 64 Key keypad. If a smaller keypad is used, 
more digital inputs and outputs become available. Up to eight 0.0V to 3.3V 
analog inputs are also provided.
The 7I73 can drive a 4 line 20 character LCD for local DRO applications.

The 7I73 has 3 software selectable process data modes. These different modes 
select different sets of 7I73 data to be transferred between the host and the 7
I73 during real time process data exchanges. For high speed applications, 
choosing the correct mode can reduced the data transfer sizes, resulting in 
higher maximum update rates
 MODE 0 I/O + ENCODER
 MODE 1 I/O + ENCODER +ANALOG IN
 MODE 2 I/O + ENCODER +ANALOG IN FAST DISPLAY

Pins:

(float out) .7i73.0.0.analoginN: Analogue inputs. Up to 8 channels may be 
available dependant on software and hardware configuration modes. 
(see the pdf manual downlaodable from www.mesanet.com)

(u32 in) .7i73.0.1.display (modes 1 and 2). Data for LCD display. This pin may
be conveniently driven by the HAL "lcd" component which allows the formatted
display of the values any number of HAL pins and textual content.


(u32 in) .7i73.0.1.display32 (mode 2 only). 4 bytes of data for LCD display. 
This mode is not supported by the HAL "lcd" component.

(s32 out) .7i73.0.1.encN: The position of the MPG encoder counters.

(bit out) .7i73.0.1.input\-NN: Up to 24 digital inputs (dependent on config)

(bit out) .7i73.0.1.input\-NN\-not: Inverted copy of the digital inputs

(bit in) .7i73.0.1.output\-NN: Up to 22 digital outputs (dependent on config)

Parameters: 

 (u32 ro) .7i73.0.1.nvanalogfilter:
 (u32 ro) .7i73.0.1.nvbaudrate
 (u32 ro) .7i73.0.1.nvcontrast
 (u32 ro) .7i73.0.1.nvdispmode
 (u32 ro) .7i73.0.1.nvencmode0
 (u32 ro) .7i73.0.1.nvencmode1
 (u32 ro) .7i73.0.1.nvencmode2
 (u32 ro) .7i73.0.1.nvencmode3
 (u32 ro) .7i73.0.1.nvkeytimer
 (u32 ro) .7i73.0.1.nvunitnumber
 (u32 ro) .7i73.0.1.nvwatchdogtimeout
 (u32 ro) .7i73.0.1.output\-00\-invert
 
 For further details of the use of the above see the Mesa manual.

(bit rw) .7i73.0.1.output\-01\-invert: Invert the corresponding output bit.

(s32 ro) .7i73.0.1.swrevision: The version of firmware installed.

TODO: Add 7i77, 7i66, 7i72, 7i83, 7i84, 7i87. 


