.TH SUPPLY "9" "2007-01-16" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NAME
supply \- set output pins with values from parameters (obsolete)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBloadrt supply num_chan=\fInum\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsupply\fR was used to allow the inputs of other HAL components
to be manipulated for testing purposes.  When it was written, the
only way to set the value of an input pin was to connect it to a 
signal and connect that signal to an output pin of some other
component, and then let that component write the pin value.
\fBsupply\fR was written to be that "other component".  It reads
values from parameters (set with the HAL command \fBsetp\fR) and
writes them to output pins.

Since \fBsupply\fR was written, the \fBsetp\fR command has been
modified to allow it to set unconnected pins as well as parameters.
In addition, the \fBsets\fR command was added, which can directly
set HAL signals, as long as there are no output pins connected to
them.  Therefore, \fBsupply\fR is obsolete.
.P
\fBsupply\fR supports a maximum of eight channels.  The number of
channels actually loaded is set by the \fBnum_chan\fR argument when
the module is loaded.  If \fBnumchan\fR is not specified, the default
value is one.

.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP 
\fBsupply.\fIN\fB.update\fR (uses floating-point)
Updates output pins for channel \fIN\fR.

.SH PINS
.TP
\fBsupply.\fIN\fB.q\fR bit out
Output bit, copied from parameter \fBsupply.\fIN\fB.d\fR.
.TP
\fBsupply.\fIN\fB._q\fR bit out
Output bit, inverted copy of parameter \fBsupply.\fIN\fB.\fBd\fR.
.TP
\fBsupply.\fIN\fB.variable\fR float out
Analog output, copied from parameter \fBsupply.\fIN\fB.value\fR.
.TP
\fBsupply.\fIN\fB._variable\fR float out
Analog output, equal to \-1.0 times parameter \fBsupply.\fIN\fB.value\fR.
.TP
\fBsupply.\fIN\fB.d\fR bit rw
Data source for \fBq\fR and \fB_q\fR output pins.
.TP
\fBsupply.\fIN\fB.value\fR bit rw
Data source for \fBvariable\fR and \fB_variable\fR output pins.

