#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass book
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Chapter

Halui Examples
\layout Standard

For any Halui examples to work you need to add the following line to the
 [HAL] section of the ini file.
\layout Quote

HALUI = halui
\layout Section

Paused & Resume
\layout Standard

This example developed from the need of EMC2 to move a rotary axis when
 told to do so by another machine.
 To coordinate between two control systems using Halui we take advantage
 of two components of Halui.
\layout Itemize

halui.program.is-paused
\layout Itemize

halui.program.resume
\layout Standard

In your custom.hal file we can add a couple of lines that when connected
 to your I/O can tell the other control system that the program is paused
 and to resume the program when the other control system wants EMC2 to resume.
\layout Quote

net ispaused halui.program.is-paused => "your out pin"
\layout Quote

net resume halui.program.resume <= "your in pin"
\layout Standard

Your "in" and "out
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 pin is what is connected to the other controller.
 It could be a parallel port pin or any other pin you have access to.
 
\layout Standard

How this works is when a M0 is encountered in your g code halui.program.is-paused
 goes true.
 This turns on your "out" pin so the other controller knows EMC2 is finished.
 
\layout Standard

To resume the g code the other controller makes your "in" pin go true.
 This will then run the EMC2 g code up to the next M0.
\layout Standard

Timing requirements
\layout Itemize

Resume must not be true longer that it takes to run the g code
\layout Itemize

Is Paused must not be on when next resume arrives
\layout Standard

Timing issues that could foul up a good plan is when the other controller
 sends a resume out and sees the is paused bit on and thinks that EMC2 was
 very fast at completing the requested command.
 The second issue is the other controller sending out a resume that is longer
 than it takes to execute the program.
 
\layout Standard

This could be over come using ClassicLadder to turn on the is paused bit
 for a limited amount of time then turning it back off.
 Also the resume could be on a one shot or a very short timer.
\layout Standard


\begin_inset Note
collapsed false

\layout Standard

add ClassicLadder example
\end_inset 


\the_end
