#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass book
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[plainpages=false,pdfpagelabels,colorlinks=true,linkcolor=blue]{hyperref}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme bookman
\graphics default
\float_placement !htbp
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize letterpaper
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 1
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 0.8in
\bottommargin 0.8in
\secnumdepth 1
\tocdepth 5
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Chapter


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{cha:Introduction}

\end_inset 

Introduction
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:What-is-HAL?}

\end_inset 

What is HAL?
\layout Standard

HAL
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{HAL}

\end_inset 

 stands for Hardware Abstraction Layer.
 At the highest level, it is simply a way to allow a number of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

building blocks
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 to be loaded and interconnected to assemble a complex system.
 The 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Hardware
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 part is because HAL was originally designed to make it easier to configure
 EMC for a wide variety of hardware devices.
 Many of the building blocks are drivers for hardware devices.
 However, HAL can do more than just configure hardware drivers.
\layout Subsection

HAL is based on traditional system design techniques
\layout Standard

HAL is based on the same principles that are used to design hardware circuits
 and systems, so it is useful to examine those principles first.
\layout Standard

Any system (including a CNC
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{CNC}

\end_inset 

 machine), consists of interconnected components.
 For the CNC machine, those components might be the main controller, servo
 amps or stepper drives, motors, encoders, limit switches, pushbutton pendants,
 perhaps a VFD for the spindle drive, a PLC to run a toolchanger, etc.
 The machine builder must select, mount and wire these pieces together to
 make a complete system.
\layout Subsubsection

Part Selection
\layout Standard

The machine builder does not need to worry about how each individual part
 works.
 He treats them as black boxes.
 During the design stage, he decides which parts he is going to use - steppers
 or servos, which brand of servo amp, what kind of limit switches and how
 many, etc.
 The integrator's decisions about which specific components to use is based
 on what that component does and the specifications supplied by the manufacturer
 of the device.
 The size of a motor and the load it must drive will affect the choice of
 amplifier needed to run it.
 The choice of amplifier may affect the kinds of feedback needed by the
 amp and the velocity or position signals that must be sent to the amp from
 a control.
 
\layout Standard

In the HAL world, the integrator must decide what HAL components are needed.
 Usually every interface card will require a driver.
 Additional components may be needed for software generation of step pulses,
 PLC functionality, and a wide variety of other tasks.
\layout Subsubsection

Interconnection Design
\layout Standard

The designer of a hardware system not only selects the parts, he also decides
 how those parts will be interconnected.
 Each black box has terminals, perhaps only two for a simple switch, or
 dozens for a servo drive or PLC.
 They need to be wired together.
 The motors connect to the servo amps, the limit switches connect to the
 controller, and so on.
 As the machine builder works on the design, he creates a large wiring diagram
 that shows how all the parts should be interconnected.
\layout Standard

When using HAL, components are interconnected by signals.
 The designer must decide which signals are needed, and what they should
 connect.
\layout Subsubsection

Implementation
\layout Standard

Once the wiring diagram is complete it is time to build the machine.
 The pieces need to be acquired and mounted, and then they are interconnected
 according to the wiring diagram.
 In a physical system, each interconnection is a piece of wire that needs
 to be cut and connected to the appropriate terminals.
\layout Standard

HAL provides a number of tools to help 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

build
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 a HAL system.
 Some of the tools allow you to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

connect
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 (or disconnect) a single 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

wire
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 Other tools allow you to save a complete list of all the parts, wires,
 and other information about the system, so that it can be 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

rebuilt
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 with a single command.
\layout Subsubsection

Testing
\layout Standard

Very few machines work right the first time.
 While testing, the builder may use a meter to see whether a limit switch
 is working or to measure the DC voltage going to a servo motor.
 He may hook up an oscilloscope to check the tuning of a drive, or to look
 for electrical noise.
 He may find a problem that requires the wiring diagram to be changed; perhaps
 a part needs to be connected differently or replaced with something completely
 different.
\layout Standard

HAL provides the software equivalents of a voltmeter, oscilloscope, signal
 generator, and other tools needed for testing and tuning a system.
 The same commands used to build the system can be used to make changes
 as needed.
\layout Subsection

Summary
\layout Standard

This document is aimed at people who already know how to do this kind of
 hardware system integration, but who do not know how to connect the hardware
 to EMC.
\layout Standard

The traditional hardware design as described above ends at the edge of the
 main control.
 Outside the control are a bunch of relatively simple boxes, connected together
 to do whatever is needed.
 Inside, the control is a big mystery -- one huge black box that we hope
 works.
\layout Standard

HAL extends this traditional hardware design method to the inside of the
 big black box.
 It makes device drivers and even some internal parts of the controller
 into smaller black boxes that can be interconnected and even replaced just
 like the external hardware.
 It allows the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

system wiring diagram
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

to show part of the internal controller, rather than just a big black box.
 And most importantly it allows the integrator to test and modify the controller
 using the same methods he would use on the rest of the hardware.
\layout Standard

Terms like motors, amps, and encoders are familiar to most machine integrators.
 When we talk about using extra flexible eight conductor shielded cable
 to connect an encoder to the servo input board in the computer, the reader
 immediately understands what it is and is led to the question, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

what kinds of connectors will I need to make up each end.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 The same sort of thinking is essential for the HAL but the specific train
 of thought may take a bit to get on track.
 Using HAL words may seem a bit strange at first, but the concept of working
 from one connection to the next is the same.
\layout Standard

This idea of extending the wiring diagram to the inside of the controller
 is what HAL is all about.
 If you are comfortable with the idea of interconnecting hardware black
 boxes, you will probably have little trouble using HAL to interconnect
 software black boxes.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:HAL-Concepts}

\end_inset 

HAL Concepts
\layout Standard

This section is a glossary that defines key HAL terms but it is a bit different
 than a traditional glossary because these terms are not arranged in alphabetica
l order.
 They are arranged by their relationship or flow in the HAL way of things.
 
\layout Description

Component
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{HAL Component}

\end_inset 

: When we talked about hardware design, we referred to the individual pieces
 as "parts", "building blocks", "black boxes", etc.
 The HAL equivalent is a "component" or "HAL component".
 (This document uses "HAL component" when there is likely to be confusion
 with other kinds of components, but normally just uses "component".) A HAL
 component is a piece of software with well-defined inputs, outputs, and
 behavior, that can be installed and interconnected as needed.
 
\layout Description

Parameter
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{HAL Parameter}

\end_inset 

: Many hardware components have adjustments that are not connected to any
 other components but still need to be accessed.
 For example, servo amps often have trim pots to allow for tuning adjustments,
 and test points where a meter or scope can be attached to view the tuning
 results.
 HAL components also can have such items, which are referred to as "parameters".
 There are two types of parameters: Input parameters are equivalent to trim
 pots - they are values that can be adjusted by the user, and remain fixed
 once they are set.
 Output parameters cannot be adjusted by the user - they are equivalent
 to test points that allow internal signals to be monitored.
\layout Description

Pin
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{HAL Pin}

\end_inset 

: Hardware components have terminals which are used to interconnect them.
 The HAL equivalent is a "pin" or "HAL pin".
 ("HAL pin" is used when needed to avoid confusion.) All HAL pins are named,
 and the pin names are used when interconnecting them.
 HAL pins are software entities that exist only inside the computer.
 
\layout Description

Physical_Pin
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{HAL Physical-Pin}

\end_inset 

: Many I/O devices have real physical pins or terminals that connect to
 external hardware, for example the pins of a parallel port connector.
 To avoid confusion, these are referred to as "physical pins".
 These are the things that 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

stick out
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 into the real world.
\begin_inset Note
collapsed true

\layout Standard

Might need some explanation how HAL_pins and Physical pin relates to something
 like an encoder chip or an stg card.
 We are dealing in data type interface and data type translation/conversion
 here.
 
\end_inset 


\layout Description

Signal
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{HAL Signal}

\end_inset 

: In a physical machine, the terminals of real hardware components are interconn
ected by wires.
 The HAL equivalent of a wire is a "signal" or "HAL signal".
 HAL signals connect HAL pins together as required by the machine builder.
 HAL signals can be disconnected and reconnected at will (even while the
 machine is running).
\layout Description

Type
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{HAL Type}

\end_inset 

: When using real hardware, you would not connect a 24 volt relay output
 to the +/-10V analog input of a servo amp.
 HAL pins have the same restrictions, which are based upon their type.
 Both pins and signals have types, and signals can only be connected to
 pins of the same type.
 Currently there are 8 types
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

There has been some discussion about whether we really need all the integer
 types.
 Maybe they will be reduced or eliminated later.
 Most signals and pins will be either floats or bits.
\end_inset 

, as follows:
\layout Itemize


\noun on 
bit
\noun default 
 - a single TRUE/FALSE or ON/OFF value
\layout Itemize


\noun on 
float
\noun default 
 - a 32 bit floating point value, with approximately 24 bits of resolution
 and over 200 bits of dynamic range.
\layout Itemize


\noun on 
u32
\noun default 
 - a 32 bit unsigned integer, legal values are 0 to +4294967295
\layout Itemize


\noun on 
s32
\noun default 
 - a 32 bit signed integer, legal values are -2147483648 to +2147483647
\layout Description


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{des:Function}

\end_inset 

Function
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{HAL Function}

\end_inset 

: Real hardware components tend to act immediately on their inputs.
 For example, if the input voltage to a servo amp changes, the output also
 changes automatically.
 However software components cannot act "automatically".
 Each component has specific code that must be executed to do whatever that
 component is supposed to do.
 In some cases, that code simply runs as part of the component.
 However in most cases, especially in realtime components, the code must
 run in a specific sequence and at specific intervals.
 For example, inputs should be read before calculations are performed on
 the input data, and outputs should not be written until the calculations
 are done.
 In these cases, the code is made available to the system in the form of
 one or more "functions".
 Each function is a block of code that performs a specific action.
 The system integrator can use "threads" to schedule a series of functions
 to be executed in a particular order and at specific time intervals.
\layout Description


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{des:Thread}

\end_inset 

Thread
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{HAL Thread}

\end_inset 

: A "thread" is a list of functions that runs at specific intervals as part
 of a realtime task.
 When a thread is first created, it has a specific time interval (period),
 but no functions.
 Functions can be added to the thread, and will be executed in order every
 time the thread runs.
\layout Standard

As an example, suppose we have a parport component named hal_parport.
 That component defines one or more HAL pins for each physical pin.
 The pins are described in that component's doc section: their names, how
 each pin relates to the physical pin, are they inverted, can you change
 polarity, etc.
 But that alone doesn't get the data from the HAL pins to the physical pins.
 It takes code to do that, and that is where functions come into the picture.
 The parport component needs at least two functions: one to read the physical
 input pins and update the HAL pins, the other to take data from the HAL
 pins and write it to the physical output pins.
 Both of these functions are part of the parport driver.
 
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:Intro-HAL-components}

\end_inset 

HAL components
\layout Standard

Each HAL component is a piece of software with well-defined inputs, outputs,
 and behavior, that can be installed and interconnected as needed.
 This section lists available components and a brief description of what
 each does.
 Complete details for each component are available later in this document.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:ExternalPrograms}

\end_inset 

External Programs with HAL hooks
\layout Description

motion
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{motion}

\end_inset 

 A realtime module that accepts NML motion commands and interacts with HAL
 
\layout Description

iocontrol
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{iocontrol}

\end_inset 

 A user space module that accepts NML I/O commands and interacts with HAL
 
\layout Description

classicladder
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{classicladder}

\end_inset 

 A PLC using HAL for all I/O
\layout Description

halui
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{halui}

\end_inset 

 A user space program that interacts with HAL and sends NML commands, it
 is intended to work as a full User Interface using external knobs & switches
 
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:InternalComponents}

\end_inset 

Internal Components
\layout Description

stepgen
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{stepgen}

\end_inset 

 Software step pulse generator with position loop.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Stepgen}

\end_inset 


\layout Description

freqgen
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{freqgen}

\end_inset 

 Software step pulse generator.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Freqgen}

\end_inset 


\layout Description

encoder
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{encoder}

\end_inset 

 Software based encoder counter.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Encoder}

\end_inset 


\layout Description

pid
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{pid}

\end_inset 

 Proportional/Integral/Derivative control loops.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:PID}

\end_inset 


\layout Description

siggen
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{siggen}

\end_inset 

 A sine/cosine/triangle/square wave generator for testing.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Siggen}

\end_inset 


\layout Description

supply
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{supply}

\end_inset 

 a simple source for testing
\layout Description

blocks
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{blocks}

\end_inset 

 assorted useful components (mux, demux, or, and, integ, ddt, limit, wcomp,
 etc.)
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:HardwareDrivers}

\end_inset 

Hardware Drivers
\layout Description

hal_ax5214h
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{hal-ax5214h}

\end_inset 

 A driver for the Axiom Measurement & Control AX5241H digital I/O board
\layout Description

hal_m5i20
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{hal-m5i20}

\end_inset 

 Mesa Electronics 5i20 board
\layout Description

hal_motenc
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{hal-motenc}

\end_inset 

 Vital Systems MOTENC-100 board
\layout Description

hal_parport
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{hal-parport}

\end_inset 

 PC parallel port.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Parport}

\end_inset 


\layout Description

hal_ppmc
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{hal-ppmc}

\end_inset 

 Pico Systems family of controllers (PPMC, USC and UPC)
\layout Description

hal_stg
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{hal-stg}

\end_inset 

 Servo To Go card (version 1 & 2)
\layout Description

hal_vti
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{hal-vti}

\end_inset 

 Vigilant Technologies PCI ENCDAC-4 controller
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:ToolsUtilities}

\end_inset 

Tools and Utilities
\layout Description

halcmd
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{halcmd}

\end_inset 

 Command line tool for configuration and tuning.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Halcmd}

\end_inset 

 
\layout Description

halgui GUI tool for configuration and tuning (not implemented yet).
\layout Description

halmeter
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{halmeter}

\end_inset 

 A handy multimeter for HAL signals.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Halmeter}

\end_inset 


\layout Description

halscope
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{halscope}

\end_inset 

 A full featured digital storage oscilloscope for HAL signals.
 See section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Halscope}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Each of these building blocks is described in detail in later chapters.
 
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:Tinkertoys}

\end_inset 

Tinkertoys, Erector Sets, Legos and the HAL
\layout Standard

A first introduction to HAL concepts can be mind boggling.
 Building anything with blocks can be a challenge but some of the toys that
 we played with as kids can be an aid to building things with the HAL.
\layout Subsection

Tower
\layout Quote

I'm watching as my son and his six year old daughter build a tower from
 a box full of random sized blocks, rods, jar lids and such.
 The aim is to see how tall they can make the tower.
 The narrower the base the more blocks left to stack on top.
 But the narrower the base, the less stable the tower.
 I see them studying both the next block and the shelf where they want to
 place it to see how it will balance out with the rest of the tower.
 
\layout Standard

The notion of stacking cards to see how tall you can make a tower is a very
 old and honored way of spending spare time.
 At first read, the integrator may have gotten the impression that building
 a HAL was a bit like that.
 It can be but with proper planning an integrator can build a stable system
 as complex as the machine at hand requires.
 
\layout Subsection

Erector Sets
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed false

\layout Standard

The Erector Set was an invention of AC Gilbert
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

What was great about the sets was the building blocks, metal struts and
 angles and plates, all with regularly spaced holes.
 You could design things and hold them together with the little screws and
 nuts.
 
\layout Quote

I got my first erector set for my fourth birthday.
 I know the box suggested a much older age than I was.
 Perhaps my father was really giving himself a present.
 I had a hard time with the little screws and nuts.
 I really needed four arms, one each for the screwdriver, screw, parts to
 be bolted together, and nut.
 Perseverence, along with father's eventual boredom, got me to where I had
 built every project in the booklet.
 Soon I was lusting after the bigger sets that were also printed on that
 paper.
 Working with those regular sized pieces opened up a world of construction
 for me and soon I moved well beyond the illustrated projects.
 
\layout Standard

Hal components are not all the same size and shape but they allow for grouping
 into larger units that will do useful work.In this sense they are like the
 parts of an Erector set.
 Some components are long and thin.
 They essentially connect high level commands to specific physical pins.
 Other components are more like the rectangular platforms upon which whole
 machines could be built.
 An integrator will quickly get beyond the brief examples and begin to bolt
 together components in ways that are unique to them.
\layout Subsection

Tinkertoys
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed false

\layout Standard

Tinkertoy is now a registered trademark of the Hasbro company.
\end_inset 


\layout Quote

Wooden Tinker toys had a more humane feel that the cold steel of Erector
 Sets.
 The heart of construction with Tinker Toys was a round connector with eight
 holes equally spaced around the circumference.
 It also had a hole in the center that was perpendicular to all the holes
 around the hub.
\layout Quote

Hubs were connected with rods of several different lengths.
 Builders would make large wheels by using these rods as spokes sticking
 out from the center hub.
 
\layout Quote

My favorite project was a rotating space station.
 Short spokes radiated from all the holes in the center hub and connected
 with hubs on the ends of each spoke.
 These outer hubs were connected to each other with longer spokes.
 I'd spend hours dreaming of living in such a device, walking from hub to
 hub around the outside as it slowly rotated producing near gravity in weightles
s space.
 Supplies traveled through the spokes in elevators that transfered them
 to an from rockets docked at the center hub while they transfered their
 precious cargos.
\layout Standard

The idea of one pin or component being the hub for many connections is also
 an easy concept within the HAL.
 Examples two and four (see section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{cha:HAL-Tutorial}

\end_inset 

) connect the meter and scope to signals that are intended to go elsewhere.
 Less easy is the notion of a hub for several incoming signals but that
 is also possible with proper use of functions within that hub component
 that handle those signals as they arrive from other components.
\layout Standard

Another thought that comes forward from this toy is a mechanical representation
 of HAL threads.
 A thread might look a bit like a centipede, caterpillar, or earwig.
 A backbone of hubs, HAL components, strung together with rods, HAL signals.
 Each component takes in it own parameters and input pins and passes on
 output pins and parameters to the next component.
 Signals travel along the backbone from end to end and are added to or modified
 by each component in turn.
 
\layout Standard

Threads are all about timing and doing a set of tasks from end to end.
 A mechanical representation is available with Tinkertoys also when we think
 of the length of the toy as a measure of the time taken to get from one
 end to the other.
 A very different thread or backbone is created by connecting the same set
 of hubs with different length rods.
 The total length of the backbone can be changed by the length of rods used
 to connect the hubs.
 The order of operations is the same but the time to get from beginning
 to end is very diferent.
 
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sub:A-Lego-Example}

\end_inset 

A Lego Example
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

The Lego name is a trademark of the Lego company.
 
\end_inset 


\layout Standard

When Lego blocks first arrived in our stores they were pretty much all the
 same size and shape.
 Sure there were half sized one and a few quarter sized as well but that
 rectangular one did most of the work.
 Lego blocks interconnected by snapping the holes in the underside of one
 onto the pins that stuck up on another.
 By overlapping layers, the joints between could be made very strong, even
 around corners or tees.
 
\layout Quote

I watched my children and grandchildren build with legos -- the same legos.
 There are a few thousand of them in an old ratty but heavy duty cardboard
 box that sits in a corner of the recreation room.
 It stays there in the open because it was too much trouble to put the box
 away and then get it back out for every visit and it is always used during
 a visit.
 There must be Lego parts in there from a couple dozen different sets.
 The little booklets that came with them are long gone but the magic of
 building with interlocking pieces all the same size is something to watch.
 
\layout Standard

Notice the following description of building a set of motion components
 in the HAL and how much like a wall of lego blocks it is.
\layout Quote

The motion module exports a pin for each axis in cartesean space, and another
 pin for each axis in joint space.
 When it is loaded, it automatically creates a "jumper" signal for each
 axis, and automatically connects those signals from the joint pin to the
 cartesean pin.
 So you automatically have "trivkins" as soon as you load the motion module.
 (trivkins -- trivial kinematics is the case where each motor moves a single
 axis at 90 degrees to the others)
\layout Standard

The motion module is like a pair of legos in a line end to end.
 Trivkins is just like a single block overlapping the two.
 The in and out motion pins are plugged into each other by the block resting
 above.
 But the parallel goes on.
\layout Quote

If you need some other kinematics, you then load a specific kins component.
 This component "knows" the names of the pins that the motion module uses
 for each axis, both joint and cartesean.
 When the module loads, it again automatically creates signals and connects
 its own pins to the motion module's pins (which will disconnect the "jumpers").
 It could also know the thread names used by the motion module, and could
 automatically add its own functions to those threads.
\layout Standard

Trivkins is removed so that the motion blocks can be spread apart and by
 using other blocks, a different bridge is built between input and output
 pins.
 In Lego terms, trivkins might be a gray block and xxkins might be a yellow
 block.
 
\layout Quote

So the net result is that 24 HAL signals and two HAL functions are configured,
 with no action needed by the integrator other than loading the module.
 (24 signals are from 6 axis * 2 because we have joint and cartesean * 2
 because we have forward and inverse kinematics.
 Two functions because we have forward and inverse.) Because these HAL signals
 exist, they can be metered or scoped or whatever for testing.
 But because both modules know their names and know how to automatically
 connect them, the integrator doesn't have to know or care.
\layout Standard

This kind of automatic HAL configuration is possible because all kinematics
 modules "plug in" the same way.
 
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:Timing-Issues}

\end_inset 

Timing Issues In HAL
\layout Standard

Threads is going to take a major intellectual push because unlike the physical
 wiring models between black boxes that we have said that HAL is based upon,
 simply connecting two pins with a hal-signal falls far short of the action
 of the physical case.
 
\layout Standard

True relay logic consists of relays connected together, and when a contact
 opens or closes, current flows (or stops) immediately.
 Other coils may change state, etc, and it all just "happens".
 But in PLC style ladder logic, it doesn't work that way.
 Usually in a single pass through the ladder, each rung is evaluated in
 the order in which it appears, and only once per pass.
 A perfect example is a single rung ladder, with a NC contact in series
 with a coil.
 The contact and coil belong to the same relay.
 
\layout Standard

If this were a conventional relay, as soon as the coil is energized, the
 contacts begin to open and de-energize it.
 That means the contacts close again, etc, etc.
 The relay becomes a buzzer.
\layout Standard

With a PLC, if the coil is OFF and the contact is closed when the PLC begins
 to evaluate the rung, then when it finishes that pass, the coil is ON.
 The fact that turning on the coil opens the contact feeding it is ignored
 until the next pass.
 On the next pass, the PLC sees that the contact is open, and de-energizes
 the coil.
 So the relay still switches rapidly between on and off, but at a rate determine
d by how often the PLC evaluates the rung.
 
\layout Standard

In HAL, the function is the code that evaluates the rung(s).
 In fact a HAL-aware realtime version of ClassicLadder would export a function
 to do exactly that.
 Meanwhile, a thread is the thing that runs the function at specific time
 intervals.
 Just like you can choose to have a PLC evaluate all its rungs every 10mS,
 or every second, you can define HAL threads with different periods.
\layout Standard

What distinguishes one thread from another is _not_ what the thread does
 - that is determined by which functions are connected to it.
 The real distinction is simply how often a thread runs.
\layout Standard

In EMC we might have a 15uS thread, a 1mS thread, and a 10mS thread.
 These would be created based on "Period", "ServoPeriod", and "TrajPeriod"
 respectively - the actual times would depend on the ini.
 That is one part of the config process, and although it could be done manually,
 it would normally be automatic.
\layout Standard

The next step is to decide what each thread needs to do.
 Some of those decisions would also be automatic - the motion module would
 automatically connect its "PlanTrajectory" function to the TrajPeriod thread,
 and its "ControlMotion" function to the ServoPeriod thread.
 
\layout Standard

Other connections would be made by the integrator (at least the first time).
 These might include hooking the STG driver's encoder read and DAC write
 functions to the servo thread, or hooking stepgen's function to the fast
 thread, along with the parport function(s) to write the steps to the port.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:Dynamic-Linking}

\end_inset 

Dynamic Linking and Configuration
\layout Standard

It is indeed possible to configure HAL with a form of dynamic linking.
 But it is different than DLLs as used by Microsoft(tm) or shared libraries
 as used in Linux.
 Both DLLs and shared libraries essentially say "Here I am, I have this
 code you might want to use", where "you" is other modules.
 Then when those other modules or programs are loaded, they say "I need
 a function called 'X', is there one?" and if the answer is YES, they link
 to it.
\layout Standard

With HAL, a component still says "Here I am, I have this code you might
 want to use", but "you" is the system integrator.
 The integrator gets to decide what functions are used and doesn't have
 to worry about another module needing "function X" and not finding it.
\layout Standard

HAL can follow the normal DLL model as well.
 Although most components will simply export pins, functions, and parameters,
 and then wait for the integrator (or a saved file) to interconnect them,
 we can write modules that (attempt to) make connections when they are installed.
 One specific place where this would work well is kinematics as illustrated
 in the Lego section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:A-Lego-Example}

\end_inset 

 .
\the_end
