.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Alex Joni
.\"                (alex_joni AT users DOT sourceforge DOT net)
.\" Spanish translation by: J.M. Garcia (2018)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH axis-remote "1"  "2007-04-01" "Documentacion de LinuxCNC" "The Enhanced Machine Controller"
.SH NOMBRE
axis\-remote \- Interface remota AXIS
.SH SINOPSIS
.B axis\-remote \fIOPCIONES\fR|\fINOMBREFICHERO\fR
.SH DESCRIPCION
\fBaxis\-remote\fR es un peque\[~n]o script que activa comandos en una GUI AXIS en ejecucion.
.TP
Use \fBaxis\-remote \-\-help\fR para mas informacion.
.SH OPCIONES
.TP
\fB\-\-ping\fR, \fB\-p\fR
Chequea si se esta ejecutando AXIS.
.TP
\fB\-\-reload\fR, \fB\-r\fR
Hace que AXIS recargue el archivo actual.
.TP
\fB\-\-clear\fR, \fB\-c\fR
Hace que AXIS limpie el area grafica.
.TP
\fB\-\-quit\fR, \fB\-q\fR
Salida de AXIS.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR, \fB\-h\fR, \fB\-?\fR
Muestra la lista de parametros validos para \fBaxis\-remote\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-mdi COMANDO\fR, \fB\-m COMANDO\fR
Ejecuta el \fBCOMANDO\fR en MDI.
.TP
\fBNOMBREFICHERO\fR
Carga el fichero de codigo G \fBNOMBREFICHERO\fR.
.SH "VEA TAMBIEN"
\fBaxis(1)\fR

Los manuales de LinuxCNC y HAL tienen mucha mas informacion disponible.
.TP
Puede encontrarlos en /usr/share/doc/linuxcnc/.

.SH HISTORIA

.SH BUGS
En este momento, ninguno conocido. 
.PP
.SH AUTOR
Esta pagina man fue escrita por Alex Joni, como parte del proyecto LinuxCNC.
.SH COMUNICACION DE BUGS
Comunicar errores a alex_joni AT users DOT sourceforge DOT net
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2007 Alex Joni.
.br
Este software es libre; vea las fuentes para las condiciones de copia. NO hay garantia;
ni para COMERCIABILIDAD, ni para APTITUD PARA UN USO PARTICULAR

