.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Jeff Epler
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.TH PYVCP "1" "2007-04-01" "Documentación LinuxCNC" "El controlador de máquina mejorado"
.SH NOMBRE
pyvcp \- Panel de control virtual para LinuxCNC
.SH SINOPSIS
\fBpyvcp\fR [\-g \fIWxH+X+Y\fR] [\-c \fIcomponent\-name\fR] \fImyfile.xml\fR
.SH OPCIONES
.TP
\fB\-g\fR \fIWxH + X + Y\fR
Esto establece la geometría inicial de la ventana raíz.
Use 'WxH' solo para el tamaño, '+ X + Y' para solo la posición, o 'WxH + X + Y' para ambos.
El tamaño/posición utiliza unidades de píxeles. Se hace referencia a la posición desde la parte superior izquierda.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR\fIcomponent-name\fR
Use \fIcomponent-name\fR como el nombre del componente HAL. Si el nombre del componente no es
especificado, se utiliza el nombre base del archivo xml. \fR
.SH "VER TAMBIÉN"
\fIPython Virtual Control Panel\fR en la documentación de LinuxCNC para obtener una descripción de
sintaxis xml, junto con ejemplos
