#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass book
\language english
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme bookman
\graphics default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4wide
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 5
\tocdepth 5
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Chapter

Compiling EMC2 from source
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

The third hurdle that you face when you begin to set up the EMC2 is getting
 and installing the EMC2 software itself.
 All of EMC2 has been placed on cvs.linuxcnc.org in a concurrent versioning
 (CVS) repository.
 EMC2 is also available as a precompiled package (for various platforms)
 for download from that site.
 
\layout Standard

Installation can be a daunting task to people new to Linux.
 The hardest part is getting the Real Time Linux patch up and running.
 After that, installing EMC is pretty easy.
 With that said, we recently provided a completely new experience for users,
 they only need to install Ubuntu (a very friendly linux distribution),
 then run a single install script, and they already should have the Real
 Time part and EMC2 working.
 Information how to access this can be found on the www.linuxcnc.org page
 under Download.
\layout Section

EMC Download Page
\layout Standard

You will find the most recent releases of EMC2 announced on www.linuxcnc.org.
 The releases of EMC2 will be done in two ways (sources and binary package).
 The sources (described furtheron) consist of a tarball (emc2-version.tar.gz),
 which you should download and unpack into your home directory.
\layout Section

EMC2 Release Description
\layout Standard

EMC2 will be using a release model similar to (but simpler than) the one
 used by Debian.
 At any one time there will be three versions of EMC2.
 Debian uses "stable", "testing", and "unstable".
 We will be using "Released", "Testing", and "Head".
 For the latest information, click on the version you are interested in.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Released
\series default 
 is exactly that, a released version of EMC2 with a version number.
 It is tested by both developers and beta users before being released, and
 is suitable for the average user.
 Most developers and IRC/mailing list regulars are able to help support
 people running a released version.
 
\series bold 
"Released"
\series default 
 is available in several forms, including .debs for Ubuntu and source tarballs
 for local compilation.
 There will be a debian repository which will always have the latest released
 version (and thus allows for easy upgrades from one stable release to the
 next).
 
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Testing
\series default 
 is a version of EMC2 that is ready for "beta testing" but not for general
 release.
 Before a version is labeled 
\series bold 
testing
\series default 
 it will be known to compile and run on several different platforms, but
 there will probably be various limitations and known problems.
 The 
\series bold 
Testing
\series default 
 wiki page will attempt to list known problems and workarounds, but there
 will probably also be undiscovered bugs.
 Since 
\series bold 
Testing
\series default 
 is "beta" software, it should not be used for anything critical.
 Users of 
\series bold 
Testing
\series default 
 need to understand that it is beta software, and must be willing to give
 detailed bug reports if things go wrong.
 
\series bold 
Testing
\series default 
 is available primarily as a tag in CVS, although for convenience of testers,
 a "testing" debian repository and/or tarballs may also be available.
 The EMC Board of Directors will decide when "Testing" is worthy of becoming
 "Released".
 This is a formal decision, made by motion and voting on the board mailing
 list or board IRC channel.
 
\layout Standard


\series bold 
TRUNK
\series default 
 is a CVS term for where all the primary development takes place.
 
\series bold 
TRUNK
\series default 
 can be broken at any time.
 When 
\series bold 
TRUNK
\series default 
 reaches a state that is deemed worthy of testing by a larger number of
 people, the 
\series bold 
"Testing"
\series default 
 tag will be moved.
 This is an informal decision, made by concensus of lead developers, usually
 on IRC.
 Development will immediately continue, and 
\series bold 
TRUNK
\series default 
 will once again diverge from 
\series bold 
Testing
\series default 
.
 
\series bold 
TRUNK
\series default 
 has no "version number", and on a busy weekend it can literally change
 every 10 minutes.
 
\layout Section

Download and source preparation.
\layout Standard

The following few section will describe how to get EMC2, and compile it.
\layout Standard

To download, simply go to www.linuxcnc.org to the Download page, and get the
 latest release or testing tarball.
\layout Standard

Once you have it, extract it to your home folder:
\layout LyX-Code

$ cd ~/
\layout LyX-Code

$ tar xzvf emc2-version.tar.gz
\layout Standard

Next you'll need to decide what kind of install you want.
 There are two ways to try EMC2 out:
\layout Description

Installed Like most other software on Linux, the files are placed in system
 directories, and is automatically available to all users of that computer.
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed false

\layout Standard

The pre-built packages for Ubuntu Linux use the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

installed
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 method
\end_inset 


\layout Description

Run-in-place All the files for EMC2 are kept inside the 
\family typewriter 
emc2
\family default 
 directory.
 This is useful for trying out EMC2, especially when there is another version
 of EMC2 already installed on the system.
\layout Subsection

Downloading the CVS version
\layout Standard

If you wish to use the TRUNK version of emc2, please follow the instructions
 on our wiki to obtain the source code: 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{http://wiki.linuxcnc.org/cgi-bin/emcinfo.pl?CVS}

\end_inset 


\layout Section

Installed
\layout Standard

EMC2 followes the standard way of compiling linux software.
 To compile it simply go to the sources folder:
\layout LyX-Code

$ cd ~/emc2/src
\layout Standard

and issue these commands:
\layout LyX-Code

$ ./configure
\newline 
$ make && sudo make install
\layout Standard

To run it simply type 'emc'.
\layout Section

Run-in-place
\layout Standard

If you want only to test the software before installing it, or if you're
 worried about overwriting an existing installation, there is a Run-In-Place
 (RIP) mode which you can try out.
 In this mode, there is no installation step, and no files are placed outside
 the top directory , 
\family typewriter 
~/emc2
\family default 
 in this example.
\layout LyX-Code

$ cd ~/emc2/src
\layout Standard

and issue these commands:
\layout LyX-Code

$ ./configure --enable-run-in-place
\newline 
$ make && sudo make setuid
\layout Standard

In a shell session where you want to use the run-in-place version of emc
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

By putting this command in a shell start-up script, such as 
\family typewriter 
~/.bash_profile
\family default 
, you do not need to manually run it in each terminal window.
\end_inset 

, execute
\layout LyX-Code

$ .
 ~/emc2/scripts/emc-environment
\layout Standard

Until you close that terminal, it will be set up so that the programs and
 manual pages from the Run-In-Place directory are available without referring
 to the path each time.
 After that you can run EMC2 by issuing:
\layout LyX-Code

$ emc
\layout Section

Simulator
\layout Standard

To install EMC2 on a system without a realtime kernel, add 
\family typewriter 
--enable-simulator
\family default 
 to the 
\family typewriter 
configure
\family default 
 commandline.
 In this mode, EMC2 runs as a purely userspace program.
 No hardware can be controlled and realtime scheduling is not guaranteed,
 but the other features of HAL, EMC and its various user interfaces are
 available.
 When using 
\family typewriter 
--enable-run-in-place
\family default 
, the 
\family typewriter 
sudo make setuid
\family default 
 step is unneeded.
\layout Section

Editing and Recompiling
\layout Standard

You may need to recompile the EMC2 code for a number of reasons.
 You may have modified the source code, or you may have downloaded just
 a few new files.
 To recompile, do the following:
\layout LyX-Code

$ cd ~/emc2/src
\newline 
$ make && sudo make install # for run-installed
\newline 
$ make && sudo make setuid  # for run-in-place
\newline 
$ make                      # for run-in-place, simulator
\layout Standard

The build process is smart enough to only rebuild things that are affected
 by your changes.
\the_end
