#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass book
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[plainpages=false,pdfpagelabels,colorlinks=true,linkcolor=blue]{hyperref}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme bookman
\graphics default
\float_placement h
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4wide
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 5
\tocdepth 5
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Chapter

Installing the EMC2 software
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

One of the problems users often complained about EMC was installing the
 software itself.
 They were forced to get sources, and compile themselves, and try to set
 up a RT-patched Linux, etc.
 The developers of EMC2 chose to go with a standard distribution called
 Ubuntu
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{Ubuntu}

\end_inset 


\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard


\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

Ubuntu
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 is an ancient African word, meaning 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

humanity to others
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 Ubuntu also means 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

I am what I am because of who we all are
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
 The Ubuntu Linux distribution brings the spirit of Ubuntu to the software
 world.
 You can read more about it at 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{http://www.ubuntu.com}

\end_inset 


\end_inset 

.
 
\layout Standard

Ubuntu has been chosen, because it fits perfectly into the Open Source
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{Open Source}

\end_inset 

 views of EMC2:
\layout Itemize

Ubuntu will always be free of charge, and there is no extra fee for the
 "enterprise edition", we make our very best work available to everyone
 on the same Free terms.
\layout Itemize

Ubuntu comes with full professional support on commercial terms from hundreds
 of companies around the world, if you need those services.
 Each new version of Ubuntu receives free security updates for 18 months
 after release, some versions are supported for even longer.
\layout Itemize

Ubuntu uses the very best in translations and accessibility infrastructure
 that the Free Software community has to offer, to make Ubuntu usable for
 as many people as possible.
\layout Itemize

Ubuntu is released regularly and predictably; a new release is made every
 six months.
 You can use the current stable release or help improve the current development
 release.
\layout Itemize

The Ubuntu community is entirely committed to the principles of free software
 development; we encourage people to use open source software, improve it
 and pass it on.
\layout Section

EMC Download Page
\layout Standard

You will find the most recent releases of EMC2 announced on www.linuxcnc.org.
 The releases of EMC2 will be done in two ways (sources and binary package).
 The sources (described in the Developers Handbook) consist of a tarball
 (emc2-<version>.tar.gz), which you should download and unpack into your home
 directory.
\layout Standard

This document (oriented towards the end-user) will only try to explain how
 to install the binary package on the Ubuntu distribution
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed false

\layout Standard

For information regarding other Linux variants, check the Developers Handbook
 or ask for help on the emc-developers 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \htmlurl[mailing list]{http://sourceforge.net/mail/?group_id=6744}

\end_inset 

.
\end_inset 

.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:EMC2-Ubuntu-Live-CD}

\end_inset 

EMC2 Live CD
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{Installing: LiveCD}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

The EMC2 team now has a custom Live-CD based on Ubuntu 6.06 that will let
 you try out EMC2 before installing, and it's also the easiest way to install
 Ubuntu and EMC2 together.
\layout Standard

Just download the 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url[ISO]{http://linuxcnc.org/iso/emc2-ubuntu6.06-desktop-i386.iso}

\end_inset 

 (
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url[EU Mirror]{http://dsplabs.utt.ro/~juve/emc/}

\end_inset 

) and burn it to a CD.
 (The MD5SUM of the CD is to be determined)
\layout Standard

When you boot the CD on your machine, you can see and experiment with the
 exact environment and EMC2 software that you will have if you choose to
 install it.
\layout Standard

If you like what you see, just click the Install icon on the desktop, answer
 a few questions (your name, timezone, password) and the install completes
 in a few minutes.
\layout Standard

This install gives you all the benefits of the community-supported Ubuntu
 distribution as well as being automatically configured for EMC2.
 As new Ubuntu updates or EMC2 releases are made, the Update manager will
 let you know and allow you to easily upgrade.
 
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:EMC2-install-script}

\end_inset 

EMC2 install script
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{Installing: script}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

We also provide a simple script to install emc2 on Ubuntu for users with
 an existing installation of Ubuntu.
 It  runs the commands explained in 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Manual-installing-using}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard

To use it you need to :
\layout Itemize

Download the script from 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{http://www.linuxcnc.org/emc2-install.sh}

\end_inset 

 (for Ubuntu 5.10) or 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{http://linuxcnc.org/dapper/emc2-install.sh}

\end_inset 

 (For Ubuntu 6.06)
\layout Itemize

Save it on your Desktop.
 Right-click the icon, select Properties.
 Go to the Permissions tab and check the box for Owner: Execute.
 Close the Properties window.
\layout Itemize

Now double-click the emc2-install.sh icon, and select "Run in Terminal".
 A terminal will appear and you will be asked for your password.
\layout Itemize

When the installation asks if you are sure you want to install the EMC2
 packages, hit Enter to accept.
 Now just allow the install to finish.
\layout Itemize

When it is done, you must reboot (System > Log Out > Restart the Computer),
 and when you log in again you can run EMC2 by selecting it on the Applications
 > CNC Menu.
\layout Itemize

If you aren't ready to set up a machine configuration, try the sim-AXIS
 configuration; it runs a "simulated machine" that requires no attached
 hardware.
\layout Itemize

Now that the initial installation is done, Ubuntu will prompt you when updates
 of EMC2 or its supporting files are available.
 When they are, you can update them easily and automatically with the Update
 Manager.
\layout Section


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec:Manual-installing-using}

\end_inset 

Manual installing using apt commands.
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{Installing: manual}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

The following few section will describe how to install EMC2 using a console
 and apt-commands.
 If you know a bit about Linux and Debian-flavored distributions this might
 be trivial.
 If not, you might consider reading 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:EMC2-install-script}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard

First add the repository to /etc/apt/sources.list:
\layout LyX-Code


\size scriptsize 
$ sudo sh -c 'echo "deb http://www.linuxcnc.org/emc2/ dapper emc2.2" >>/etc/apt/sou
rces.list;'
\layout LyX-Code


\size scriptsize 
$ sudo sh -c 'echo "deb-src http://www.linuxcnc.org/emc2/ dapper emc2.2" >>/etc/apt
/sources.list'
\layout Standard

Or replace 'dapper' above with 'breezy' if you still use Ubuntu 5.10 Breezy
 Badger.
\layout Standard

Then update & get emc2.
\layout LyX-Code


\size scriptsize 
$ sudo apt-get update
\newline 
$ sudo apt-get install emc2
\layout Standard

This command will install the emc2 package along with all dependencies
\begin_inset Foot
collapsed true

\layout Standard

The dependencies are one of the nicest thing in Debian based distributions.
 They assure you have everything installed that you need.
 In the case of emc2 it's even a RT-patched kernel, and all needed libraries.
\end_inset 

.
 
\layout Standard

You might get warnings that the packages are from an untrusted source (this
 means your computer doesn't recognize the GPG signature on the packages).
 To correct that issue the following commands:
\layout LyX-Code


\size scriptsize 
$ gpg --keyserver pgpkeys.mit.edu --recv-key BC92B87F
\newline 
$ gpg -a --export BC92B87F | sudo apt-key add -
\the_end
