#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass book
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Quick Start Guide for Stepper Configurations
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Set machine units:
\series default 
 You need to decide whether you want the machine to use inches or millimeters
 by default.
 This is done by choosing either the stepper/stepper_inch config or the
 stepper/stepper_mm config.
 The first time you run EMC2, a dialog will prompt you to copy the configuration
 to your home directory.
 You should select 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

yes
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard

Before going on, you should open the ini file in a text editor.
 The file will be in your home directory under emc2/configs/stepper/stepper_inch.
ini (or stepper_mm.ini if you chose that config).
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Determine the size of a step:
\series default 
 EMC2 needs to know how far your machine will move for each step pulse it
 sends to the motors.
 The equation to calculate this is 
\layout Standard


\series bold 
steps * usteps * pitch * ratio
\series default 
, where 
\layout Standard


\series bold 
steps
\series default 
 is the number of steps per revolution for your motor (usually 200)
\layout Standard


\series bold 
usteps
\series default 
 is the number of microsteps your drive is set to.
 This is 2 for half stepping, 4 for quarter stepping, etc.
\layout Standard


\series bold 
pitch
\series default 
 is the screw pitch: How many turns does it take to move the table one unit?
\layout Standard


\series bold 
ratio
\series default 
 is the drive ratio between the motor and the screw.
 If using a belt or gear drive, use the final drive ratio.
\layout Standard

So, for a standard stepper (200 steps/rev), using Gecko drives (10x microsteppin
g), a 10 pitch screw, and 2:1 belt drive, the formula is:
\layout Standard

200 * 10 * 10 * 2 = 40000 steps/inch
\layout Standard

This needs to be determined independently for each axis.
\layout Standard

Let's set the X axis resolution to 40000 steps/inch.
 Find the [AXIS_0] section of the ini file.
 This contains all of the X-axis specific information.
 Change INPUT_SCALE (yes, input - EMC2 still keeps track of where the motor
 should be) to 40000.
 The other axes would be done the same way (Y = AXIS_1, Z = AXIS_2 ...)
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Set up the parallel port connections:
\series default 
 You need to tell EMC2 where you stepper drives are connected to the computer.
 There are two sample confi
\layout Standard


\series bold 
Set up stepgen:
\series default 
 Stepgen is the module EMC2 uses to convert the position outputs from the
 trajectory planner to steps for the motor.
 
\the_end
