#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass book
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Chapter

Getting EMC2
\layout Section

Download the Software
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{Download the Software}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Download the Live CD from 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{http://www.linuxcnc.org/}

\end_inset 

 and follow the Download link.
\layout Section

Multi-session Download
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{Multi-session Download}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

If the file is too large to download in one session because of a bad or
 slow Internet connection use 
\family typewriter 
\series bold 
wget
\family default 
\series default 
 to allow resuming downloads.
 
\layout Subsection

Linux
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{wget}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Open a terminal window.
 In Ubuntu it is Applications/Accessories/Terminal.
\layout Standard

To get the Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron version copy this in the terminal window
 and press enter:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
wget -r http://www.linuxcnc.org/hardy/ubuntu-8.04-desktop-emc2-aj07-i386.iso
\layout Standard

To get the Ubuntu 6.06 Dapper Drake version:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
wget -r http://www.linuxcnc.org/iso/emc2.2.2-1-ubuntu6.06-desktop-i386.iso
\layout Standard

To continue a download that has been stopped add the -c option to wget:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
wget -r -c http://www.linuxcnc.org/hardy/ubuntu-8.04-desktop-emc2-aj07-i386.iso
\layout Standard

To stop a download use Ctrl-C or close the terminal window.
\layout Subsection

Windows
\layout Standard

The wget program is also available for Windows from
\layout Standard

http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/wget.htm
\layout Standard

Follow the instructions on the web page for downloading and installing the
 windows version of the wget program.
\layout Standard

To run wget open a command prompt window.
 
\layout Standard

In most Windows it is Programs/Accessories/Command Prompt
\layout Standard

First you have to change to the directory where wget is installed in.
 
\layout Standard

Typically it is in C:
\backslash 
Program Files
\backslash 
GnuWin32
\backslash 
bin so in the Command Prompt window type:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
cd C:
\backslash 
Program Files
\backslash 
GnuWin32
\backslash 
bin
\layout Standard

and the prompt should change to C:
\backslash 
Program Files
\backslash 
GnuWin32>
\layout Standard

Type the wget command into the window and press enter as above.
\layout Section

Burning the CD
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{Burning the CD}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

EMC2 is distributed as CD image files, called ISOs.
 To install EMC2, you first need to burn its ISO file onto a CD.
 You need a working CD/DVD burner and an 80 minute (700 Mb) CD for this.
 If the CD writing fails, try writing at a slower burn speed
\layout Subsection

Linux
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{md5sum}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

Before burning a CD, it is highly recommended that you verify the md5 sum
 (hash) of the .iso file.
\layout Standard

Open a terminal window.
 In Ubuntu it is Applications/Accessories/Terminal.
\layout Standard

Change to the directory where the ISO was downloaded to.
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
cd download_directory
\layout Standard

The run the md5sum command with the file name you saved.
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
md5sum ubuntu-8.04-desktop-emc2-aj07-i386.iso
\layout Standard

The md5sum should print out a single line after calculating the hash.
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
\series bold 
91c5abb84386091e0ff056e9ebc40fdb ubuntu-8.04-desktop-emc2-aj07-i386.iso
\layout Standard

Now compare it to the md5sum on the EMC2 download page.
\layout Standard

Burning the ISO to a CD
\layout Enumerate

Insert a blank CD into your burner.
 A "CD/DVD Creator" or "Choose Disc Type" window will pop up.
 Close this, as we will not be using it.
\layout Enumerate

Browse to the downloaded ISO image in the file browser.
\layout Enumerate

Right click on the ISO image file and choose Write to Disc.
\layout Enumerate

Select the write speed.
 If you are burning a Ubuntu Live CD, it is recommended that you write at
 the lowest possible speed.
\layout Enumerate

Start the burning process.
\layout Subsection

Windows
\layout Standard

Before burning a CD, it is highly recommended that you verify the md5 sum
 (hash) of the .iso file.
\layout Standard

Windows does not come with a md5sum program.
 You will have to download and install one to check the md5sum.
 More information can be found at:
\layout Standard

https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM
\layout Standard

Burning the ISO to a CD
\layout Enumerate

Download and install Infra Recorder, a free and open source image burning
 program.
\layout Enumerate

Insert a blank CD in the drive and select Do nothing or Cancel if an auto-run
 dialog pops up.
\layout Enumerate

Open Infra Recorder, and select the 'Actions' menu, then 'Burn image'.
\layout Section

Installing EMC2
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{Installing EMC2}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

With the Live CD in the CD/DVD drive shut down the computer then turn the
 computer back on.
 This will boot the computer from the Live CD.
 Once the computer has booted up you can try out EMC2 without installing
 it.
 You can not create custom configurations unless you install EMC2.
 If you like what you see, just click the Install icon on the desktop, answer
 a few questions (your name, timezone, password) and the install completes
 in a few minutes.
 Make sure you write down the name you used and the password.
\layout Section

Updates to EMC2
\begin_inset LatexCommand \index{Updates to EMC2}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

With the normal install the Update Manager will notify you of updates to
 EMC2 and Ubuntu and allow you to easily upgrade with no Linux knowledge
 needed.
\the_end
