#LyX 1.5.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 276
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\begin_preamble

\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Computer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Minimum Requirements
\begin_inset LatexCommand index
name "Minimum Requirements"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The minimum system to run EMC2 and Ubuntu may vary depending on the exact
 usage.
 Stepper systems in general require faster threads to generate step pulses
 than servo systems.
 Using the Live-CD you can test the software before committing a computer.
 Keep in mind that the Latency Test numbers are more important than the
 processor speed for software step generation.
 More information on the Latency Test is in Section (
\begin_inset LatexCommand ref
reference "sub:Latency-Test"

\end_inset

).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Additional information is on the EMC Wiki site:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset LatexCommand url
target "http://wiki.linuxcnc.org/cgi-bin/emcinfo.pl?Hardware_Requirements"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
EMC2 and Ubuntu should run reasonably well on a computer with the following
 minimum hardware specification.
 These numbers are not the absolute minimum but will give reasonable performance
 for most stepper systems.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
700 MHz x86 processor (1.2 GHz x86 processor recommended)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
384 MB of RAM (512 MB up to 1 GB recommended)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
4 GB hard disk
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Graphics card capable of at least 800x600 resolution, which is not using
 the NVidia or ATI fglrx proprietary drivers, and which is not an onboard
 video chipset that shares main memory with the CPU
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
A network or Internet connection (not strictly needed, but very useful for
 updates and for communicating with the EMC community)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Problematic Hardware
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Laptops
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Laptops are not generally suited to real time software step generation.
 Again a Latency Test run for an extended time will give you the info you
 need to determine suitability.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Video Cards
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If your installation pops up with 800 x 600 screen resolution then most
 likely Ubuntu does not recognize your video card or monitor.
 Onboard video many times causes bad real time performance.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
