# classicladder — Classic Ladder PLC API
#
# RT ladder evaluation gomod + GTK/Web UI. The classicladder.refresh RT
# function runs in a HAL thread (C code via cgo). This API exposes
# program editing, variable monitoring, and run control for UI clients.

@api classicladder
@version 1
@prefix "classicladder"
@rest_export true

# --- Constants ---

const RUNG_WIDTH = 10
const RUNG_HEIGHT = 6
const LGT_LABEL = 10
const LGT_COMMENT = 30
const LGT_SECTION_NAME = 20
const LGT_SYMBOL_STRING = 10
const LGT_SYMBOL_COMMENT = 50
const LGT_VAR_NAME = 10
const ARITHM_EXPR_SIZE = 50

# --- Enums ---

enum LadderState {
    LOADING = 0
    STOP = 1
    RUN = 2
}

enum SectionLanguage {
    LADDER = 0
    SEQUENTIAL = 1
}

enum TimerIECMode {
    TON = 0
    TOF = 1
    TP = 2
}

# --- Types ---

type Element {
    type: i32
    connectedWithTop: i32
    varType: i32
    varNum: i32
}

type Rung {
    used: bool
    prevRung: i32
    nextRung: i32
    label: string
    comment: string
    elements: [60]Element   # RUNG_WIDTH * RUNG_HEIGHT, row-major
}

type Section {
    used: bool
    name: string
    language: SectionLanguage
    subRoutineNumber: i32
    firstRung: i32
    lastRung: i32
    sequentialPage: i32
}

type Symbol {
    varName: string
    symbol: string
    comment: string
}

type ArithmExpr {
    expr: string
}

type TimerIEC {
    preset: i32
    value: i32
    base: i32
    mode: TimerIECMode
    input: bool
    output: bool
}

type Timer {
    preset: i32
    value: i32
    base: i32
    inputEnable: bool
    inputControl: bool
    outputDone: bool
    outputRunning: bool
}

type Monostable {
    preset: i32
    value: i32
    base: i32
    input: bool
    outputRunning: bool
}

type Counter {
    preset: i32
    value: i32
    inputReset: bool
    inputPreset: bool
    inputCountUp: bool
    inputCountDown: bool
    outputDone: bool
    outputEmpty: bool
    outputFull: bool
}

type SizeInfo {
    nbrRungs: i32
    nbrBits: i32
    nbrWords: i32
    nbrTimers: i32
    nbrMonostables: i32
    nbrCounters: i32
    nbrTimersIec: i32
    nbrPhysInputs: i32
    nbrPhysOutputs: i32
    nbrArithmExpr: i32
    nbrSections: i32
    nbrSymbols: i32
    nbrS32in: i32
    nbrS32out: i32
    nbrFloatIn: i32
    nbrFloatOut: i32
    nbrErrorBits: i32
}

type Status {
    state: LadderState
    scanTimeUs: i32
    periodicRefreshMs: i32
    sizes: SizeInfo
    projectFile: string
}

type Program {
    sizes: SizeInfo
    rungs: []Rung
    sections: []Section
    symbols: []Symbol
    arithmExprs: []ArithmExpr
    timersIec: []TimerIEC
    timers: []Timer
    monostables: []Monostable
    counters: []Counter
}

type VarsBool {
    bits: []bool
    physInputs: []bool
    physOutputs: []bool
    errorBits: []bool
}

type VarsWord {
    words: []i32
    physWordInputs: []i32
    physWordOutputs: []i32
}

type VarsFloat {
    physFloatInputs: []f64
    physFloatOutputs: []f64
}

type Variables {
    bools: VarsBool
    words: VarsWord
    floats: VarsFloat
}

# --- Control functions ---

# Get PLC status (state, scan time, sizes).
@method GET
@path "/status"
func get_status() -> Status

# Set ladder state (RUN/STOP).
@method POST
@path "/state"
func set_state(state: LadderState) -> i32

# Get the full program (rungs, sections, symbols, expressions, timers).
@method GET
@path "/program"
func get_program() -> Program

# Replace the full program (bulk upload from file load or editor).
@method PUT
@path "/program"
func set_program(program: Program) -> i32

# Get a single rung by index.
@method GET
@path "/rung/{index}"
func get_rung(index: i32) -> Rung

# Update a single rung (after edit).
@method PUT
@path "/rung/{index}"
func set_rung(index: i32, rung: Rung) -> i32

# Get a section by index.
@method GET
@path "/section/{index}"
func get_section(index: i32) -> Section

# Update a section.
@method PUT
@path "/section/{index}"
func set_section(index: i32, section: Section) -> i32

# Get all current variable values (for spy window).
@method GET
@path "/variables"
func get_variables() -> Variables

# Set a variable value (for testing/forcing).
@method POST
@path "/variable"
func set_variable(varType: i32, offset: i32, value: i32) -> i32

# Load a .clp project file on the backend.
@method POST
@path "/load"
func load_project(path: string) -> i32

# Save current program to a .clp file.
@method POST
@path "/save"
func save_project(path: string) -> i32

# Get symbol table.
@method GET
@path "/symbols"
func get_symbols() -> []Symbol

# --- Modbus types ---

enum ModbusReqType {
    COIL_READ = 0       # FC 1
    COIL_WRITE = 1      # FC 5/15
    INPUT_READ = 2      # FC 2
    HOLDING_READ = 3    # FC 3
    REGISTER_WRITE = 4  # FC 6/16
    DIAGNOSTIC = 5      # FC 8
}

type ModbusComParams {
    serialPort: string
    serialSpeed: i32
    serialDataBits: i32
    serialStopBits: i32
    serialParity: i32          # 0=none, 1=odd, 2=even
    serialUseRts: bool
    elementOffset: i32
    timeInterFrame: i32        # ms between frames
    timeOutReceipt: i32        # ms receive timeout
    timeAfterTransmit: i32     # ms delay after TX (RS485)
    debugLevel: i32
    mapCoilRead: i32           # variable type for coil reads
    mapCoilWrite: i32          # variable type for coil writes
    mapInputs: i32             # variable type for discrete inputs
    mapHolding: i32            # variable type for holding registers
    mapRegisterRead: i32       # variable type for register reads
    mapRegisterWrite: i32      # variable type for register writes
}

type ModbusRequest {
    slaveAddr: string          # IP:port for TCP, slave number for serial
    typeReq: ModbusReqType
    firstModbusElement: i32
    nbrModbusElements: i32
    logicInverted: bool
    offsetVarMapped: i32
}

type ModbusStatus {
    running: bool
    currentReq: i32
    frameCount: i32
    errorCount: i32
    slavePort: i32             # TCP slave listen port (0=disabled)
}

# --- Modbus functions ---

# Get Modbus communication parameters.
@method GET
@path "/modbus/com_params"
func get_modbus_com_params() -> ModbusComParams

# Set Modbus communication parameters (restarts master if running).
@method PUT
@path "/modbus/com_params"
func set_modbus_com_params(params: ModbusComParams) -> i32

# Get all Modbus I/O request definitions.
@method GET
@path "/modbus/requests"
func get_modbus_requests() -> []ModbusRequest

# Replace all Modbus I/O request definitions (restarts master if running).
@method PUT
@path "/modbus/requests"
func set_modbus_requests(requests: []ModbusRequest) -> i32

# Get Modbus runtime status (running, frame/error counts).
@method GET
@path "/modbus/status"
func get_modbus_status() -> ModbusStatus

# Update symbol table.
@method PUT
@path "/symbols"
func set_symbols(symbols: []Symbol) -> i32

# Get arithmetic expressions.
@method GET
@path "/expressions"
func get_expressions() -> []ArithmExpr

# Update arithmetic expressions.
@method PUT
@path "/expressions"
func set_expressions(exprs: []ArithmExpr) -> i32

# --- Watch functions (pushed to WS clients) ---

# Live status pushed to connected clients (state + scan time).
@watch true
@watch_default_rate 100ms
func watch_status() -> Status

# Live variable values pushed to clients (for spy window).
@watch true
@watch_default_rate 200ms
func watch_variables() -> Variables
