# EMC IO API
# Command/status interface between milltask and iocontrol.
# Replaces the NML toolCmd/toolSts channels.
#
# iocontrol registers as the server (implements the callbacks).
# milltask is the client (calls the functions).
# All command functions are synchronous — they block until the
# HAL handshake completes and return success/error directly.

@api emcio
@author "Fred Proctor & Will Shackleford (emc_nml.hh)"
@author "Sascha Ittner <sascha.ittner@modusoft.de>"
@license "GPL Version 2"
@version 1
@prefix emcio
@rest_export false

# ─── Enums ───

enum CmdStatus {
    DONE = 1
    EXEC = 2
    ERROR = 3
}

# ─── Status types ───

type ToolStatus {
    pocket_prepped: i32         # pocket prepared for next tool change
    tool_in_spindle: i32        # tool number currently in spindle
    tool_from_pocket: i32       # pocket the current tool came from
}

type CoolantStatus {
    mist: bool
    flood: bool
}

type IoStatus {
    heartbeat: u32              # incremented each IO cycle
    status: CmdStatus           # last command result
    reason: i32                 # abort/fault reason code
    fault: i32                  # 0=ok, 1=fault during M6
    tool: ToolStatus
    coolant: CoolantStatus
    estop: bool                 # true = e-stopped
    lube_on: bool
    lube_level: bool            # lube level ok
    debug: i32
}

# ─── Commands (milltask → iocontrol) ───

# Abort current IO operation.
func io_abort(reason: i32) -> i32

# Set debug level.
func set_debug(debug: i32) -> i32

# E-stop control.
func estop_on() -> i32
func estop_off() -> i32

# Coolant control.
func coolant_mist_on() -> i32
func coolant_mist_off() -> i32
func coolant_flood_on() -> i32
func coolant_flood_off() -> i32

# Lube control.
func lube_on() -> i32
func lube_off() -> i32

# Tool change sequencing.
# prepare selects the pocket; blocks until iocontrol signals tool-prepared.
func tool_prepare(tool: i32) -> i32

# start_change signals the beginning of the tool change sequence.
func tool_start_change() -> i32

# tool_load executes the actual tool change; blocks until complete.
func tool_load() -> i32

# tool_unload removes the tool from the spindle.
func tool_unload() -> i32

# Reload the tool table from file.
func tool_load_table(file: string) -> i32

# Set tool geometry offsets (G10 L1/L10/L11).
func tool_set_offset(pocket: i32, toolno: i32,
    x: f64, y: f64, z: f64,
    a: f64, b: f64, c: f64,
    u: f64, v: f64, w: f64,
    diameter: f64, frontangle: f64, backangle: f64,
    orientation: i32) -> i32

# Override the tool number in the spindle.
func tool_set_number(tool: i32) -> i32

# ─── Status (iocontrol → milltask) ───

# Get current IO status snapshot.
func get_status() -> IoStatus
