# halscope — HAL oscilloscope API
#
# RT capture cmod + WebSocket UI. The scope_rt cmod is loaded once via
# HAL config and exposes this API for UI clients to configure channels,
# trigger, and retrieve captured waveform data.
#
# The scope.sample RT function is exported via hal_export_funct() and
# is NOT part of this API — it runs in the HAL thread context.

@api halscope
@version 1
@prefix "halscope"
@rest_export true

const MAX_CHANNELS = 16
const MAX_SAMPLES = 65536

enum ScopeState {
    IDLE = 0
    INIT = 1
    PRE_TRIG = 2
    TRIG_WAIT = 3
    POST_TRIG = 4
    DONE = 5
    RESET = 6
}

enum TrigEdge {
    FALLING = 0
    RISING = 1
}

enum HalType {
    BIT = 1
    FLOAT = 2
    S32 = 3
    U32 = 4
    S64 = 5
    U64 = 6
}

type ChannelConfig {
    channel: i32
    pinName: string
}

type ChannelInfo {
    channel: i32
    pinName: string
    dataType: HalType
    enabled: bool
}

type TriggerConfig {
    channel: i32
    level: f64
    edge: TrigEdge
    autoTrig: bool
}

type CaptureConfig {
    threadName: string
    maxChannels: i32
    samplePeriodMult: i32
    preTrig: i32
}

type ChannelOption {
    maxChannels: i32
    recLen: i32
}

type ScopeStatus {
    state: ScopeState
    samples: i32
    recLen: i32
    preTrig: i32
    sampleLen: i32
    maxChannels: i32
    samplePeriodMult: i32
    threadPeriodNs: i64
    threadName: string
    trigChannel: i32
    trigLevel: f64
    trigEdge: TrigEdge
    trigAutoTrig: bool
    generation: u32
    continuous: bool
    channels: []ChannelInfo
    channelOptions: []ChannelOption
}

type ThreadInfo {
    name: string
    periodNs: i64
}

# --- Control functions (non-RT, called via REST/WS) ---

# List all HAL threads (for thread selection in UI).
@method GET
@path "/threads"
func list_threads() -> []ThreadInfo

# Reconfigure capture buffer. Only valid when state is IDLE or DONE.
# If thread_name is set, the sample function is wired to that thread.
@method POST
@path "/configure"
func configure(config: CaptureConfig) -> i32

# Assign a HAL pin/signal/param to a channel. The cmod resolves the
# address internally — no SHMPTR passing.
@method POST
@path "/channel"
func set_channel(ch: ChannelConfig) -> i32

# Remove a channel from the capture set.
@method DELETE
@path "/channel/{channel}"
func clear_channel(channel: i32) -> i32

# Set trigger parameters.
@method POST
@path "/trigger"
func set_trigger(trig: TriggerConfig) -> i32

# Arm the capture (transitions IDLE/DONE → INIT → PRE_TRIG).
@method POST
@path "/arm"
func arm() -> i32

# Force-trigger: immediately triggers capture when in TRIG_WAIT.
# Like the original halscope "Force" button — one-shot command.
@method POST
@path "/force_trigger"
func force_trigger() -> i32

# Enable or disable continuous (auto-rearm) mode. When enabled, the RT
# state machine automatically transitions DONE → INIT for repeated captures.
@method POST
@path "/set_continuous"
func set_continuous(enabled: bool) -> i32

# Reset / abort an in-progress capture.
@method POST
@path "/reset"
func reset() -> i32

# Get current scope status.
@method GET
@path "/status"
func get_status() -> ScopeStatus

# List available HAL pins/signals/params that can be captured.
# kind: "pin", "sig", "param", or "" for all (default).
@method GET
@path "/pins"
func list_pins(pattern: string?, kind: string?) -> []string

# --- Watch functions (pushed to WS clients) ---

# State changes pushed to all connected clients.
@watch true
@watch_default_rate 100ms
func watch_state() -> ScopeStatus

# Sample data delivered as binary WS frames on capture complete.
# Binary layout: header (16 bytes) + raw sample data.
# Header: [u32le sample_count] [u32le sample_len] [u32le start_offset] [u32le reserved]
# Data: sample_count × sample_len × 8 bytes (scope_data_t values, little-endian)
@watch true
@watch_default_rate 100ms
func watch_samples() -> []u8
