# HostMot2 Low-Level I/O API
#
# Provided by transport drivers (hm2_eth, hm2_pci, hm2_spi, etc.).
# Consumed by the hostmot2 core module.
#
# The transport driver registers this API with board metadata,
# then the hostmot2 core looks it up and calls into it for all
# FPGA register access.

@api hm2_llio
@author "Sebastian Kuzminsky (hostmot2.h)"
@author "Sascha Ittner <sascha.ittner@modusoft.de>"
@license "GPL Version 2"
@version 1
@prefix hm2_llio
@rest_export false

# ─── Constants ───

const MAX_IOPORT_CONNECTORS = 8
const MAX_CONNECTOR_NAME_LEN = 32

# ─── Types ───

# Board metadata passed during registration.
# Static for the lifetime of the transport instance.
type BoardInfo {
    num_ioport_connectors: i32
    pins_per_connector: i32
    num_leds: i32
    threadsafe: i32
    split_read: i32
    fpga_part_number: string
}

# ─── I/O functions (RT-safe, called every servo cycle) ───

@rt_safe "true"
@doc "Read registers from the FPGA. Returns non-zero on success, 0 on error."
func read(addr: u32, buffer: ptr, size: i32) -> i32

@rt_safe "true"
@doc "Write registers to the FPGA. Returns non-zero on success, 0 on error."
func write(addr: u32, buffer: ptr, size: i32) -> i32

# ─── Queued I/O (optional, for high-latency transports) ───

@rt_safe "true"
@doc "Queue a read for later execution. Buffer must remain stable until receive."
func queue_read(addr: u32, buffer: ptr, size: i32) -> i32

@rt_safe "true"
@doc "Send all queued reads to the hardware."
func send_queued_reads() -> i32

@rt_safe "true"
@doc "Receive results of previously sent queued reads."
func receive_queued_reads() -> i32

@rt_safe "true"
@doc "Queue a write for later execution."
func queue_write(addr: u32, buffer: ptr, size: i32) -> i32

@rt_safe "true"
@doc "Send all queued writes to the hardware."
func send_queued_writes() -> i32

@rt_safe "true"
@doc "Enable/disable write coalescing into a single packet."
func set_force_enqueue(enable: i32) -> i32

# ─── Control functions (non-RT, called during init/shutdown) ───

@doc "Program the FPGA with a bitfile. Data is raw bitfile content."
func program_fpga(bitfile_data: ptr, bitfile_size: i32) -> i32

@doc "Reset the hardware after an I/O error."
func reset() -> i32
