.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Alex Joni
.\"                (alex_joni AT users DOT sourceforge DOT net)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH AXIS "1"  "2007-04-01" "EMC Documentation" "The Enhanced Machine Controller"
.SH NAME
axis \- AXIS EMC (The Enhanced Machine Controller) Graphical User Interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B axis
\fI-ini\fR \fIINIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBaxis\fR is one of the Graphical User Interfaces (GUI) for EMC 
(The Enhanced Machine Controller). It gets run by the runscript usually.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fBINIFILE\fR
The ini file is the main piece of an EMC configuration. It is not the
entire configuration; there are various other files that go with it
(NML files, HAL files, TBL files, VAR files). It is, however, the most
important one, because it is the file that holds the configuration
together. It can adjust a lot of parameters itself, but it also tells
\fBemc\fR which other files to load and use.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBemc(1)\fR

Much more information about EMC2 and HAL is available in the EMC2
and HAL User Manuals, found at /usr/share/doc/emc2/.

.SH HISTORY

.SH BUGS
None known at this time. 
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
This man page written by Alex Joni, as part of the Enhanced Machine
Controller (EMC) project.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to alex_joni AT users DOT sourceforge DOT net
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2007 Alex Joni.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
