.\" Copyright (c) 2020 andypugh
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH GREMLIN_VIEW "1"  "2020-08-26" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "The Enhanced Machine Controller"
.SH NAME
gremlin_view \- G-code graphical preview
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gremlin_view 

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgremlin_view\fR is a Python wrapper for the gremlin G-code graphical
preview

PGremlinView for gremlin with buttons for simpler embedding
Standalone functionality if linuxcnc running
A default ui file (gremlin_view.ui) is provided for a default
button arrangement but a user may provide their own by supplying
the glade_file argument.
The following objects are mandatory:
  'gremlin_view_window'      toplevel window
  'gremlin_view_hal_gremlin' hal_gremlin
  'gremlin_view_box'         HBox or VBox' containing hal_gremlin
Optional radiobutton group names:
  'select_p_view'
  'select_x_view'
  'select_y_view'
  'select_z_view'
  'select_z2_view'
Optional checkbuttons names:
  'enable_dro'
  'show_machine_speed
  'show_distance_to_go'
  'show_limits'
  'show_extents'
  'show_tool'
  'show_metric'
Callbacks are provided for the following button actions
  on_clear_live_plotter_clicked
  on_enable_dro_clicked
  on_zoomin_pressed
  on_zoomout_pressed
  on_pan_x_minus_pressed
  on_pan_x_plus_pressed
  on_pan_y_minus_pressed
  on_pan_y_plus_pressed
  on_show_tool_clicked
  on_show_metric_clicked
  on_show_extents_clicked
  on_select_p_view_clicked
  on_select_x_view_clicked
  on_select_y_view_clicked
  on_select_z_view_clicked
  on_select_z2_view_clicked
  on_show_distance_to_go_clicked
  on_show_machine_speed_clicked
  on_show_limits_clicked

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBhttp://wiki.linuxcnc.org/cgi-bin/wiki.pl?Gremlin\fR
\fBLinuxCNC(1)\fR

Much more information about LinuxCNC and HAL is available in the LinuxCNC
and HAL User Manuals, found at /usr/share/doc/LinuxCNC/.

.SH BUGS
None known at this time. 
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
This man page written by andypugh, as part of the LinuxCNC project.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/LinuxCNC/linuxcnc/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 andypugh.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
