.\" Copyright (c) 2020 andypugh
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH HALREPORT "1"  "2020-08-26" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "The Enhanced Machine Controller"
.SH NAME
halreport \- creates a report on the status of the HAL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B  halreport [outfilename]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhalreport\fR

 1) supports components made by halcompile and numerous
    legacy components
 2) Known unhandled components:
    at_pid   -- naming conflicts with pid, seldom used
    boss_plc -- no manpage or docs (any users?)
    watchdog -- seldom used (no users in-tree)
 3) deprecated/obsolete components
    counter
    supply

 Identificaion of functions used according to pin name.
 Default handling works for components that:
 1) use names=|count= (.comp components created with halcompile)
 2) have a *single* function

Full docs: 

.nf http://linuxcnc.org/docs/html/hal/tools.html#_halreport

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBLinuxCNC(1)\fR

Much more information about LinuxCNC and HAL is available in the LinuxCNC
and HAL User Manuals, found at /usr/share/doc/LinuxCNC/.

.SH BUGS
None known at this time. 
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
This man page written by andypugh, as part of the LinuxCNC project.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/LinuxCNC/linuxcnc/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 andypugh.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
