.\" Copyright (c) 2020 andypugh
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH HALRMT "1"  "2020-08-26" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "The Enhanced Machine Controller"
.SH NAME
halrmt \- short description
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B halrmt

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhalrmt\fR is a remote-control interface for LinuxCNC. 

.SH USAGE

  halrmt {-- --port <port number> --name <server name> --connectpw <password>
             --enablepw <password> --sessions <max sessions> -ini<inifile>}

  With -- --port Waits for socket connections (Telnet) on specified socket, without port
            uses default port 5006. (note: linuxcncrsh uses 5007 as default)
  With -- --name <server name> Sets the server name to specified name for Hello.
  With -- --connectpw <password> Sets the connection password to 'password'. Default EMC
  With -- --enablepw <password> Sets the enable password to 'password'. Default EMCTOO
  With -- --sessions <max sessions> Sets the maximum number of simultaneous connextions
            to max sessions. Default is no limit (-1).
  With -- -ini <inifile>, uses inifile instead of emc.ini. 

  There are six commands supported, Where the commands set and get contain HAL
  specific sub-commands based on the commands supported by halcmd. Commands and 
  most parameters are not case sensitive. The exceptions are passwords, 
  file paths and text strings.
  
  The supported commands are as follows:
  
  ==> HELLO <==
  
  Hello <password> <client> <version>
  If a valid password was entered the server will respond with
  
  HELLO ACK <Server Name> <Server Version>
  
  Where server name and server version are looked up from the implementation.
  if an invalid password or any other syntax error occurs then the server 
  responds with:
  
  HELLO NAK
  
  ==> Get <==
  
  The get command includes one of the hal sub-commands, described below and
  zero or more additional parameters. 
  
  ==> Set <==
  
  The set command inclides one of the hal sub-commands, described below and
  one or more additional parameters.
  
  ==> Quit <==
  
  The quit command disconnects the associated socket connection.
  
  ==> Shutdown <==
  
  The shutdown command tells EMC to shutdown before quitting the connection. This
  command may only be issued if the Hello has been successfully negotiated and the
  connection has control of the CNC (see enable sub-command below). This command
  has no parameters.
  
  ==> Help <==
  
  The help command will return help information in text format over the telnet
  connection. If no parameters are specified, it will itemize the available commands.
  If a command is specified, it will provide usage information for the specified
  command. Help will respond regardless of whether a "Hello" has been
  successfully negotiated.
  
  
  HAL sub-commands:
  
  echo on | off
  With get will return the current echo state, with set, sets the echo
  state. When echo is on, all commands will be echoed upon receipt. This
  state is local to each connection.
  
  verbose on | off
  With get will return the current verbose state, with set, sets the
  verbose state. When in verbose mode is on, all set commands return
  positive acknowledgement in the form SET <COMMAND> ACK. In addition,
  text error messages will be issued when in verbose mode. This state
  is local to each connection.
  
  enable <pwd> | off
  With get will return On or Off to indicate whether the current connection
  is enabled to perform control functions. With set and a valid password,
  the current connection is enabled for control functions. "OFF" may not
  be used as a password and disables control functions for this connection.

  config [TBD]
  
  comm_mode ascii | binary
  With get, will return the current communications mode. With set, will
  set the communications mode to the specified mode. The binary protocol 
  is TBD.
  
  comm_prot <version no>
  With get, returns the current protocol version used by the server,
  with set, sets the server to use the specified protocol version,
  provided it is lower than or equal to the highest version number
  supported by the server implementation.

  Comps [<substring>]

  Get only, returns all components beginning with the specified substring. 
  If no substring is specified then it returns all components.

  Pins [<substring>]

  Get only, returns all information about all pins beginning with the
  specified substring. If no substring is specified then it returns all pins.

  PinVals [<substring>]

  Get only, returns only value information about all pins beginning with the
  specified substring. If no substring is specified then it returns all pins.

  Signals [<substring>]

  Get only, returns all information about all signals beginning with the
  specified substring. If no substring is specified then it returns all signals.

  SigVals [<substring>]

  Get only, returns only value information about all signals beginning with the
  specified substring. If no substring is specified then it returns all pins.

  Params [<substring>]

  Get only, returns all information about all parameters beginning with the
  specified substring. If no substring is specified then it returns all 
  parameters.

  ParamVals [<substring>]

  Get only, returns only value information about all parameters beginning with the
  specified substring. If no substring is specified then it returns all pins
  parameters.

  Functs [<substring>]

  Get only, returns all information about all functions beginning with the
  specified substring. If no substring is specified then it returns all 
  functions.
  
  Threads

  Get only, returns all information about all functions.
 
  Comp <name>

  Get only, returns the component matching the specified name.

  Pin <name>

  Get only, returns all information about the pin matching the specified 
  name.

  PinVal <name>

  Get only, returns the value of the pin matching the specified name.

  Sig <name>

  Get only, returns all information about the pin matching the specified 
  name.

  SigVal <name>

  Get only, returns just the value of the signal matching the specified
  name.
  
  Param <name>

  Get only, returns all information about the parameter matching the 
  specified name.

  ParamVal <name>

  Get only, returns just the value of the parameter matching the specified
  name.

  Funct <name>

  Get only, returns all information about the parameter matching the 
  specified name.

  Thread <name>

  Get only, returns all information about the thread matching the 
  specified name.

  LoadRt <name>

  Set only, loads the real time executable specified by name.

  Unload <name>

  Set only, unloads the executable specified by name.

  LoadUsr <name>

  Set only, loads the user executable specified by name.

  Linkps <pin name> <signal name>

  Set only, links the specified pin to the specified signal.

  Linksp <signal name> <pin name>

  Set only, links the specified signal to the specified pin.

  Linkpp <pin name 1> <pin name 2>

  Set only, links the pin specified by pin 1 with the pin specified by pin 2.

  Net <net list>

  Set only, nets the specified net list.

  Unlinkp <pin name 1> <pin name 2>

  Set only, unlinks the specified pins

  Lock

  Unlock

  NewSig <name> <type>

  Set only, creates the signal specified by name and of type specified by type.

  DelSig <name>

  Set only, deletes the signal specified by name.

  SetP <name> <value>

  Set only, sets the parameter specified by name to the value specified by value.

  SetS <name> <value>

  Set only, sets the signal specified by name to the value specified by value.

  AddF <name> <thread> [<parameters>]

  Set only, adds the function specified by name, to the thread specified by
  thread, with the optional parameters specified by parameters.

  DelF <name>

  Set only, deletes the function specified by name.

  Save 

  Start

  Stop

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBLinuxCNC(1)\fR

Much more information about LinuxCNC and HAL is available in the LinuxCNC
and HAL User Manuals, found at /usr/share/doc/LinuxCNC/.

.SH HISTORY

.SH BUGS
It is not know if this interface currently works.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
This man page written by andypugh, as part of the LinuxCNC project.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/LinuxCNC/linuxcnc/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 andypugh.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
