.\" Copyright (c) 2006 John Kasunich
.\"                (jmkasunich AT users DOT sourceforge DOT net)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH HALSTREAMER "1"  "2006-11-18" "EMC Documentation" "HAL User's Manual"
.SH NAME
halstreamer \- stream file data into HAL in real time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B halstreamer
.I [chan_num|
.BI < data_file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR streamer (9)
and
.B halstreamer
are used together to stream data from a file into the HAL in real time.
.B streamer
is a realtime HAL component that exports HAL pins and creates a FIFO in shared memory.
.B hal_streamer
is a user space program that copies data from stdin into the FIFO, so that
.B streamer
can write it to the HAL pins.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I [chan_num]
instructs 
.B halstreamer
to write to a specific FIFO.  FIFOs are numbered from zero, and the default
value is zero, so 
.I chan_num
is not needed unless multiple FIFOs have been created.
.SH USAGE
A FIFO must first be created by loading 
.BR streamer (9)
with 
.B halcmd loadrt
or a
.B loadrt
command in a .hal file.  Then
.B halstreamer
can be invoked to begin writing data into the FIFO.
.P
Data is read from stdin, and each line of input must match the pins that are attached to the FIFO, for example, if the 
.B streamer
config string was "ffbs" then each
line of input must consist of two floats, a bit, and a signed integer, in that
order and separated by whitespace.  Floats must be formatted as required by
.BR strtod (3),
signed and unsigned integers must be formated as required by
.BR strtol (3)
and
.BR strtoul (3),
and bits must be either '0' or '1'.
.P
.B halstreamer
transfers data to the FIFO as fast as possible until the FIFO is full, then it retries at regular intervals, until it is either killed or reads 
.B EOF
from stdin.  Data can be redirected from a file or piped from some other program.
.P
The FIFO size should be chosen to ride through any momentary disruptions in the flow of data, such as disk seeks.  If the FIFO is big enough,
.B halstreamer
can be restarted with the same or a new file before the FIFO empties, resulting in a continuous stream of data.
.P
The data format for
.B halstreamer
input is the same as for
.BR halsampler (1)
output, so 'waveforms' captured with
.B halsampler
can be replayed using
.B halstreamer.

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
If a problem is encountered during initialization,
.B halstreamer
prints a message to stderr and returns failure.
.P
If a badly formatted line is encountered while writing to the FIFO, it prints a message to stderr, skips the line, and continues (this behavior may be revised in the future).
.P
Upon reading
.B EOF
from the input, it returns success.  If it is terminated before the input ends, it returns failure.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR streamer (9)
.BR sampler (9)
.BR halsampler (1)

.SH HISTORY

.SH BUGS

.SH AUTHOR
Original version by John Kasunich, as part of the Enhanced Machine
Controller (EMC) project.  Improvements by several other members of
the EMC development team.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to jmkasunich AT users DOT sourceforge DOT net
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006 John Kasunich.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
