.\" Copyright (c) 2020 andypugh
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH HALSHOW "1"  "2020-08-26" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "The Enhanced Machine Controller"
.SH NAME
halshow \- Show HAL parameters, pins and signals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B halshow [Options] [watchfile]

.SH OPTIONS
           --help    (help)
           --fformat format_string_for_float
           --iformat format_string_for_int
           --noprefs don't use preference file to save settings

For format see 
.UR https://www.tcl.tk/man/tcl8.6.11/TclCmd/format.html
.UE

Example: 
"%.5f" displays a float with 5 digits right of the decimal point
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhalshow\fR creates a GUI interface to view and interact with a running
HAL session. 
It is documented in the PDF and HTML docs much more completely than is
possible in a manpage:
.UR http://linuxcnc.org/docs/html/hal/halshow.html
.UE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBLinuxCNC(1)\fR

Much more information about LinuxCNC and HAL is available in the LinuxCNC
and HAL User Manuals, found at /usr/share/doc/LinuxCNC/.

.SH HISTORY
.TP
LinuxCNC 2.9:
\- Added buttons for pin/parameter/signal manipulation
.br
\- Added menu entries for setting update interval, adding manually
.br
\- Added right-click menu for copy, set, unlink pin and remove from view

.SH BUGS
None known at this time. 
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Raymond E. Henry
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/LinuxCNC/linuxcnc/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 andypugh.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
