.\" Copyright (c) 2003 John Kasunich
.\"                (jmkasunich AT users DOT sourceforge DOT net)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.de URL
\\$2 \(laURL: \\$1 \(ra\\$3
..
.if \n[.g] .mso www.tmac
.TH HALTCL "1"  "2012-01-31" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL User's Manual"
.SH NAME
haltcl \- manipulate the LinuxCNC HAL from the command line using a Tcl
interpreter.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B haltcl [\fI\-i <INI file>\fR] [\fIfilename\fR\]
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhaltcl\fR is used to manipulate the HAL (Hardware Abstraction
Layer) from the command line using a Tcl interpreter.  \fBhaltcl\fR
can optionally read commands from a file (filename), allowing
complex HAL configurations to be set up with a single command.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fI<INI file>\fR
If specified, the INI file is read and used to create Tcl global variable
arrays.  An array is created for each SECTION of the INI file with
elements for each ITEM in the section.
.P
       For example, if the INI file contains:
       [SECTION_A]ITEM_1 =  1
       [SECTION_A]ITEM_2 =  2
       [SECTION_B]ITEM_1 = 10

       The corresponding Tcl variables are:
       SECTION_A(ITEM_1) =  1
       SECTION_A(ITEM_2) =  2
       SECTION_B(ITEM_1) = 10
.TP
\fB\-ini\fR \fI<INI file>\fR -- declining usage, use \fB\-i\fR \fI<INI file>\fR
.TP
\fBfilename\fR
If specified, the Tcl commands of \fBfilename\fR are executed.  If no filename
is specified, haltcl opens an interactive session.

.SH COMMANDS
\fBhaltcl\fR includes the commands of a Tcl interpreter augmented with
commands for the hal language as described for \fBhalcmd\fR(1).  The augmented
commands can be listed with the command:

   haltcl: hal \-\-commands

   addf alias delf delsig getp gets ptype stype help linkpp linkps linksp list loadrt loadusr lock net newsig save setexact_for_test_suite_only setp sets show source start status stop unalias unlinkp unload unloadrt unloadusr unlock waitusr

Two of the augmented commands, 'list' and 'gets', require special treatment to
avoid conflict with Tcl built-in commands having the same names.  To use these
commands, precede them with the keyword 'hal':

   hal list
   hal gets

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to the
.URL https://github.com/LinuxCNC/linuxcnc/issues "LinuxCNC bug tracker" .
.SH COPYRIGHT
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBhalcmd\fR(1), \fBhalrun\fR(1)
