.TH "IOCONTROL - IO" "1" "2007-08-25" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component" 
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NAME
iocontrol \- interacts with HAL or G-code in userspace

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B [EMCIO]
.br
.B EMCIO = io

.SH DESCRIPTION

I/O control handles I/O tasks like coolant, toolchange, e-stop and lube. The signals are turned on and off in userspace with G-code or in the case of e-stop in hal. 

The following pins are created by the userspace IO controller, usually found in $LINUXCNC_HOME/bin/io
.P
iocontrol is a userspace process - if you have strict timing requirements
or simply need more i/o, consider using the realtime synchronized i/o
provided by \fBmotion\fR(9) instead.
.P
The inifile is searched for in the directory from which halcmd was run,
unless an absolute path is specified.

.SH PINS

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.coolant\-flood
(Bit, Out) TRUE when flood coolant is requested

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.coolant\-mist 
(Bit, Out) TRUE when mist coolant is requested

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.emc\-enable\-in 
(Bit, In) Should be driven FALSE when an external estop condition exists.

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.lube 
(Bit, Out) TRUE when lube is requested.  This pin gets driven True when
the controller comes out of E-stop, and when the "Lube On" command gets
sent to the controller.  It gets driven False when the controller goes
into E-stop, and when the "Lube Off" command gets sent to the controller.

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.lube_level 
(Bit, In) Should be driven FALSE when lubrication tank is empty.

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.tool\-change 
(Bit, Out) TRUE when a tool change is requested

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.tool\-changed 
(Bit, In) Should be driven TRUE when a tool change is completed.

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.tool\-number
(s32, Out) Current tool number

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.tool\-prep\-number 
(s32, Out) The number of the next tool, from the RS274NGC T-word

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.tool\-prep\-pocket
(s32, Out) This is the pocket number (location in the tool storage
mechanism) of the tool requested by the most recent T-word.

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.tool\-prepare 
(Bit, Out) TRUE when a T\fIn\fR tool prepare is requested

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.tool\-prepared 
(Bit, In) Should be driven TRUE when a tool prepare is completed.

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.user\-enable\-out 
(Bit, Out) FALSE when an internal estop condition exists

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.user\-request\-enable 
(Bit, Out) TRUE when the user has requested that estop be cleared

.TP
\fBiocontrol.0.tool\-prep\-index
(s32, Out) IO's internal array index of the prepped tool requested
by the most recent T-word.  0 if no tool is prepped.  On Random
toolchanger machines this is the tool's pocket number (ie, the same as the
tool\-prep\-pocket pin), on Non-random toolchanger machines this is
a small integer corresponding to the tool's location in the internal
representation of the tool table.  This parameter returns to 0 after a
successful tool change (M6).

.SH SEE ALSO

.ie '\*[.T]'html' \{\

.UR io.1.html
\fBio\fR(1),
.UE
.UR iov2.1.html
\fBiov2\fR(1),
.UE
.UR ../man9/motion.9.html
\fBmotion\fR(9)
.UE

\}
.el \{\

\fBio\fR(1)
\fBiov2\fR(1)
\fBmotion\fR(9)

\}
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at 
.UR https://github.com/LinuxCNC/linuxcnc/issues
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
Derived from a work by Fred Proctor & Will Shackleford.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2004 the LinuxCNC project.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

