.\" Copyright (c) 2020 andypugh
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH LATENCY-HISTOGRAM "1"  "2021-08-14" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "The Enhanced Machine Controller"
.SH NAME
latency-histogram \- plot a histogram of machine latency
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B latency-histogram
.RB [ \-?|\-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-base " " \fIns\fP ]
.RB [ \-\-servo " " \fIns\fP ]
.RB [ \-\-bbinsize " " \fIns\fP ]
.RB [ \-\-sbinsize " " \fIns\fP ]
.RB [ \-\-bbins " " \fIns\fP ]
.RB [ \-\-sbins " " \fIns\fP ]
.RB [ \-\-logscale " " \fI0|1\fP ]
.RB [ \-\-text " " \fInote\fP ]
.RB [ \-\-show ]
.RB [ \-\-nobase ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-nox ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The latency test is important when configuring a LinuxCNC system.
An adjunct to the standard latency-test latency-histogram plots the distribution of latency.
This can be useful to get a feel for how frequent the high latency excursions are.
.PP
LinuxCNC and HAL should not be running, stop with
.IR "halrun \-U" .
Large number of bins and/or small binsizes will slow updates.
For single thread, specify
.B \-\-nobase
(and options for servo thread).
Measured latencies outside of the +/\- bin range are reported with special end bars.
Use
.B \-\-show
to show count for the off-chart [pos|neg] pin.
.PP
More details:
\%https://linuxcnc.org/docs/html/install/latency-test.html
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-? ", " \-\-help
Show options and exit.
.TP
.BI \-\-base " ns"
base thread interval, default: 25000, min: 5000
.TP
.BI \-\-servo " ns"
servo thread interval, default: 1000000, min: 25000
.TP
.BI \-\-bbinsize " ns"
base bin size, default: 100
.TP
.BI \-\-sbinsize " ns"
servo bin size, default: 100
.TP
.BI \-\-bbins " ns"
base bins, default: 200
.TP
.BI \-\-sbins " ns"
servo bins, default: 200
.TP
.BI \-\-logscale " 0|1"
y axis log scale, default: 1
.TP
.BI \-\-text " note"
additional note, default: ""
.TP
.BI \-\-show
show count of undisplayed bins
.TP
.BI \-\-nobase
servo thread only
.TP
.BI \-\-verbose
progress and debug
.TP
.BI \-\-nox
no GUI, display elapsed, min, max, sdev for each thread
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR latency-plot (1),
.BR latency-test (1),
.BR linuxcnc (1)
.PP
Much more information about LinuxCNC and HAL is available in the LinuxCNC
and HAL User Manuals, found at
.IR /usr/share/doc/linuxcnc/ .
.SH BUGS
None known at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
This man page written by andypugh, as part of the LinuxCNC project.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at
\%https://github.com/LinuxCNC/linuxcnc/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 andypugh.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
