.TH mitsub_vfd "1" "2018-10-25" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"


.SH NAME

mitsub_vfd - HAL userspace component for Mitsubishi A500 F500
E500 A500 D700 E700 F700-series VFDs (others may work)


.SH SYNOPSIS

.B loadrt mitsub_vfd [--baud 4800] [--port /dev/ttyUSB0] name1=number1[,name2=numer2...]
.br
\fBname1\fR is user selectable (usually a description of the 
controlled device).
.br
\fBnumber1\fR is the slave number that was set on the VFD. 
must be two digits (Parameter 117)
.br
\fBname=number\fR can be repeated for multiple VFD's 
connected together
.br
\fB--baud\fR is optional as it defaults to 9600
  all networked vfds must be set to the same baudrate
.br
\fB--port\fR is optional as it defaults to ttyS0

.SH DESCRIPTION

The mitsub_vfd component interfaces a Mitsubishi VFD to 
LinuxCNC. The VFD is connected via RS-485 serial to the 
computer's USB or serial port using a RS-232/RS-485 converter


.SH HARDWARE SETUP
reference manual 'communication option reference manual' 
and A500 technical manual for 500 series.
Fr-A700 F700 E700 D700 technical manual for the 700 series
.br
The inverter must be set manually for communication
.br
( you may have to set PR 77 to 1 to unlock PR modifcation )
.br
You must power cycle the inverter for some of these. (eg 79)

.TP
\fBVFD INTERNAL PARAMETERS: \Fr

\fBPARAMETER 79\fR - 1 or 0

\fBPARAMETER 117\fR station number - 1
.br
(can be optionally set 0 - 31) if component is also set

\fBPARAMETER 118\fR communication speed 96
.br
(can be optionally set 48,96,192 if component is also set)

\fBPARAMETER 119\fR stop bit/data length - 0   
.br      
(8 bits, two stop - don't change)

\fBPARAMETER 120\fR parity - 0
.br
(no parity - don't change)

\fBPARAMETER 121\fR COM tries - 10
.br
(if maximuim 10 COM errors then inverter faults- can change)

\fBPARAMETER 122\fR COM check time interval 9999
.br
(never check - if communication is lost inverter will 
not know (can change)

\fBPARAMETER 123\fR wait time - 9999
.br
no wait time is added to the serial data frame (don't change)

\fBPARAMETER 124\fR CR selection - 0
.br
don't change

.SH

This driver assumes certain other VFD settings:
-That the motor frequency status is set to show herts. 
.br
-That the status bit 3 is up to speed
.br
-That the status bit 7 is alarm

some models (eg E500) cannot monitor status.
.br
You must set set the monitor pin to false.
.br
In this case pins such as up-to-speed,
amps, alarm and status bits are not useful.

.SH PINS
\fB[VFD NAME].fwd\fR (bit, in)::
      forward/reverse pin
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].run\fR (bit, in)::
      run/stop pin
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].debug\fR (bit, in)::
      set debug mode pin
.br
      This will print many messages to the terminal
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].monitor\fR (bit, in)::
      set monitor mode pin
      If false request-status command will not be sent to vfd.
      Status, amps, power, motor-feedback, and alarm would then not 
        be useful.
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].estop\fR (bit, in)::
      set estop mode pin
.br
      This will stop the VFD. 
      Restarting requires the run pin to cycle.

\fB[VFD NAME].fwd\fR (bit, out)::
      up-to-speed status pin
      Motor is at requested speed within VFD's settings tolerance.
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].alarm\fR (bit, out)::
      alarm status pin
.br

\fB[VFD NAME].motor-cmd\fR (float, in)::
      The requested motor speed, is Hertz
.br

\fB[VFD NAME].motor-fb\fR (float, out)::
      The motor feedback speed (from vfd) in hertz
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].motor-amps\fR (float, out)::
      The motor current, in amps
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].motor-power\fR (float, out)::
      The motor power
.br

\fB[VFD NAME].scale-cmd\fR (float, in)::
      Motor command's scale setting defaults to 1
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].scale-cmd\fR (float, in)::
      Motor command's scale setting defaults to 1
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].scale-cmd\fR (float, in)::
      Motor command's scale setting defaults to 1
.br

\fB[VFD NAME].stat-bit-0\fR (bit, out)::
      raw status bit
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].stat-bit-1\fR (bit, out)::
      raw status bit
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].stat-bit-2\fR (bit, out)::
      raw status bit
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].stat-bit-3\fR (bit, out)::
      raw status bit
      set the VFD so this is motor-at-speed status
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].stat-bit-4\fR (bit, out)::
      raw status bit
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].stat-bit-5\fR (bit, out)::
      raw status bit
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].stat-bit-6\fR (bit, out)::
      raw status bit
.br
\fB[VFD NAME].stat-bit-7\fR (bit, out)::
      raw status bit
      Set the VFD so this in the alarm bit

.SH SAMPLE HAL
loadusr -Wn coolant mitsub_vfd --port /dev/ttyUSB0 spindle=02 coolant=01
.br
# **************** Spindle VFD setup slave 2 ****************
.br
net spindle-vel-cmd               spindle.motor-cmd
.br
net spindle-cw                    spindle.fwd              
.br
net spindle-on                    spindle.run              
.br
net spindle-at-speed              spindle.up-to-speed
.br
net estop-out                     spindle.estop
.br
#       cmd scaled to RPM (belt/gearbox driven)
.br
setp spindle.scale-cmd .135
.br
#       feedback is in rpm (recipicale of command)
.br
setp spindle.scale-fb 7.411
.br
#       turn on monitoring so feedback works
.br
setp spindle.monitor 1
.br
net spindle-speed-indicator spindle.motor-fb
.br
# *************** Coolant vfd setup slave 1 *****************
.br
net coolant-flood                         coolant.run
.br
net coolant-is-on              coolant.up-to-speed
.br
#       cmd and feedback scaled to hertz
.br
setp coolant.scale-cmd 1
.br
setp coolant.scale-fb 1
.br
#       command full speed
.br
setp coolant.motor-cmd 60
.br
#       allows us to see status
.br
setp coolant.monitor 1
.br
net estop-out                     coolant.estop

.SH ISSUES

some models (eg E500) cannot monitor status, so set the 
monitor pin to false In this case pins such as up-to-speed,
amps, alarm and status bits are not useful.

