.\" Copyright (c) 2021 Phillip A Carter
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH pmx485-test "1" "Oct 28 2021" "Powermax Modbus Communications Testing" "LinuxCNC Documentation"
.SH NAME
\fBpmx485-test\fR \- Modbus communications testing with a Powermax Plasma Cutter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pmx485-test
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
pmx485 is a python script for testing communications with a Hypertherm Powermax 
plasma cutter using the Modbus ASCII protocol over RS485.
.PP
.SH USAGE
Select the correct port from the list of available ports.

Check RS485 to establish communications.

Changing MODE, CURRENT, or PRESSURE will change the corresponding value on the
 Powermax and the new value will be reported back to the test panel.

Check PANEL to end communication.
.SH AUTHOR
Phillip Carter
.SH LICENSE
GPL
