.\" Copyright (c) 2020 Phillip A Carter
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH pmx485 "1" "Feb 1 2020" "Powermax Modbus Communications" "LinuxCNC Documentation"
.SH NAME
\fBpmx485\fR \- Modbus communications with a Powermax Plasma Cutter.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B loadusr -Wn pmx485 pmx485 /dev/ttyUSB0
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
pmx485 is a non-realtime HAL component to communicate with a Hypertherm Powermax 
plasma cutter using the Modbus ASCII protocol over RS485.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
See the Drivers section of the LinuxCNC Documentation for more information on pmx485.
.SH AUTHOR
Phillip Carter
.SH LICENSE
GPL
