.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Jeff Epler
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.TH PYVCP "1"  "2007-04-01" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "The Enhanced Machine Controller"
.SH NAME
pyvcp \- Virtual Control Panel for LinuxCNC
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpyvcp\fR [\-g \fIWxH+X+Y\fR] [\-c \fIcomponent\-name\fR] \fImyfile.xml\fR
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-g\fR \fIWxH+X+Y\fR
This sets the initial geometry of the root window.
Use 'WxH' for just size, '+X+Y' for just position, or 'WxH+X+Y' for both.
Size / position use pixel units. Position is referenced from top left. 
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fIcomponent-name\fR
Use \fIcomponent-name\fR as the HAL component name.  If the component name is
not specified, the basename of the xml file is used.\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIPython Virtual Control Panel\fR in the LinuxCNC documentation for a description of the
xml syntax, along with examples
