.\" Copyright (c) 2021 Phillip A Carter
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH qtplasmac-materials "1" "Oct 28 2021" "QtPlasmaC Materials Assistant" "LinuxCNC Documentation"
.SH NAME
\fBqtplasmac-materials\fR \- Create a plasma materials file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qtplasmac-materials
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
qtplasmac-materials is a Python script for creating a materials file.

The file can be created by text entry or by importing text from a CAM tool file.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
See the QtPlasmaC section of the LinuxCNC Documentation for more information.

http://linuxcnc.org/docs/stable/html/plasma/qtplasmac.html#_material_converter
.SH AUTHOR
Phillip Carter
.SH LICENSE
GPL
