.\" Copyright (c) 2020 andypugh
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH QTVCP "1"  "2020-08-26" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "The Enhanced Machine Controller"
.SH NAME
qtvcp \- Qt-based virtual control panels
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qtvcp
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] myfile.ui

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBQtVCP\fR is a system for creating user interfaces for LinuxCNC.

Full documentation at http://linuxcnc.org/docs/html/gui/qtvcp.html

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h, --help\fR
Show this help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR [\fI<NAME>\fR]
Set component name to NAME. Default is basename of UI file.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR
Set the window to always be on top.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Enable debug output.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Enable verbose debug output.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Enable only error debug output.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR [\fI<GEOMETRY>\fR]
Set geometry WIDTHxHEIGHT+XOFFSET+YOFFSET.
Values are in pixel units, XOFFSET/YOFFSET is referenced from top left of screen.
Use -g WIDTHxHEIGHT for just setting size or -g +XOFFSET+YOFFSET for just position.

Example: -g 200x400+0+100.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR [\fI<FILE>\fR]
Execute HAL statements from FILE with halcmd after the component is set up and ready.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR
Enable info output.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR
Force panel window to maximize.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Force panel window to fullscreen.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR [\fI<THEME>\fR]
Set Qt style. Default is system theme.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR [\fI<XID>\fR]
Reparent QtVCP into an existing window XID instead of creating a new top level window.
.TP
\fB\--push_xid\fR
Reparent window into a plug add push the plug xid number to standardout.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR [\fI<USERMOD>\fR]
File path of user defined handler file.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR [\fI<USEROPTS>\fR]
Pass USEROPTS strings to handler under self.w.USEROPTIONS_ list variable.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBLinuxCNC(1)\fR

Much more information about LinuxCNC and HAL is available in the LinuxCNC and HAL User Manuals, found at /usr/share/doc/LinuxCNC/.

.SH BUGS
None known at this time.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
This man page written by andypugh, as part of the LinuxCNC project.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/LinuxCNC/linuxcnc/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 andypugh.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
