.\" Copyright (c) 2020 andypugh
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH RS274 "1"  "2020-08-26" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "The Enhanced Machine Controller"
.SH NAME
rs274 \- standalone G-code interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rs274 \fR[-p interp.so] [-t tool.tbl] [-v var-file.var] [-n 0|1|2]
          [-b] [-s] [-g] [input file [output file]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrs274\fR Standalone G-code interpreter interface

Usage: rs274 [-p interp.so] [-t tool.tbl] [-v var-file.var] [-n 0|1|2]
          [-b] [-s] [-g] [input file [output file]]

    -p: Specify the pluggable interpreter to use
    -t: Specify the .tbl (tool table) file to use
    -v: Specify the .var (parameter) file to use
    -n: Specify the continue mode:
           0: continue
           1: enter MDI mode
           2: stop (default)
    -b: Toggle the 'block delete' flag (default: OFF)
    -s: Toggle the 'print stack' flag (default: OFF)
    -g: Toggle the 'go (batch mode)' flag (default: OFF)
    -i: specify the .ini file (default: no ini file)
    -T: call task_init()
    -l: specify the log_level (default: -1)

.SH Example

To see the output of a loop for example we can run rs274 on the following file
and see that the loop never ends. To break out of the loop use Ctrl Z. The
following two files are needed to run the example.

test.ngc
 ----
 #<test> = 123.352
 o101 while [[#<test> MOD 60 ] NE 0]
 (debug,#<test>)
    #<test> = [#<test> + 1]
 101 endwhile
 M2
 ----

test.tbl
 ----
 T1 P1 Z0.511 D0.125 ;1/8 end mill
 T2 P2 Z0.1 D0.0625 ;1/16 end mill
 T3 P3 Z1.273 D0.201 ;#7 tap drill
 ----

command
 ----
 rs274 -g test.ngc -t test.tbl
 ----


.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBLinuxCNC(1)\fR

Much more information about LinuxCNC and HAL is available in the LinuxCNC
and HAL User Manuals, found at /usr/share/doc/LinuxCNC/.

.SH BUGS
None known at this time. 
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
This man page written by andypugh, as part of the LinuxCNC project.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/LinuxCNC/linuxcnc/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 andypugh.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
