.\" Copyright (c) 2020 andypugh
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH SCHEDRMT "1"  "2020-08-26" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "The Enhanced Machine Controller"
.SH NAME
schedrmt \- telnet based scheduler for LinuxCNC
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B schedrmt

.SH DESCRIPTION


  schedrmt {-- --port <port number> --name <server name> --connectpw <password>
             --enablepw <password> --sessions <max sessions> --path <path>
             -ini<inifile>}

  With -- --port Waits for socket connections (Telnet) on specified socket, without port
            uses default port 5007.
  With -- --name <server name> Sets the server name to specified name for Hello.
  With -- --connectpw <password> Sets the connection password to 'password'. Default EMC
  With -- --enablepw <password> Sets the enable password to 'password'. Default EMCTOO
  With -- --sessions <max sessions> Sets the maximum number of simultaneous connextions
            to max sessions. Default is no limit (-1).
  With -- --path Sets the base path to program (G-Code) files, default is "../../nc_files/".
            Make sure to include the final slash (/).
  With -- -ini <inifile>, uses inifile instead of emc.ini. 

  There are six commands supported, Where the commands set and get contain EMC
  specific sub-commands based on the commands supported by emcsh, but where the "emc_"
  is omitted. Commands and most parameters are not case sensitive. The exceptions are 
  passwords, file paths and text strings.
  
  The supported commands are as follows:
  
  ==> HELLO <==
  
  Hello <password> <client> <version>
  If a valid password was entered the server will respond with
  
  HELLO ACK <Server Name> <Server Version>
  
  Where server name and server version are looked up from the implementation.
  if an invalid password or any other syntax error occurs then the server 
  responds with:
  
  HELLO NAK
  
  ==> Get <==
  
  The get command includes one of the emc sub-commands, described below and
  zero or more additional parameters. 
  
  ==> Set <==
  
  The set command inclides one of the emc sub-commands, described below and
  one or more additional parameters.
  
  ==> Quit <==
  
  The quit command disconnects the associated socket connection.
  
  ==> Shutdown <==
  
  The shutdown command tells EMC to shutdown before quitting the connection. This
  command may only be issued if the Hello has been successfully negotiated and the
  connection has control of the CNC (see enable sub-command below). This command
  has no parameters.
  
  ==> Help <==
  
  The help command will return help information in text format over the telnet
  connection. If no parameters are specified, it will itemize the available commands.
  If a command is specified, it will provide usage information for the specified
  command. Help will respond regardless of whether a "Hello" has been
  successfully negotiated.
  
  
  EMC sub-commands:
  
  echo on | off
  With get will return the current echo state, with set, sets the echo
  state. When echo is on, all commands will be echoed upon receipt. This
  state is local to each connection.
  
  verbose on | off
  With get will return the current verbose state, with set, sets the
  verbose state. When in verbose mode is on, all set commands return
  positive acknowledgement in the form SET <COMMAND> ACK. In addition,
  text error messages will be issued when in verbose mode. This state
  is local to each connection.
  
  enable <pwd> | off
  With get will return On or Off to indicate whether the current connection
  is enabled to perform control functions. With set and a valid password,
  the current connection is enabled for control functions. "OFF" may not
  be used as a password and disables control functions for this connection.
  
  config [TBD]
  
  comm_mode ascii | binary
  With get, will return the current communications mode. With set, will
  set the communications mode to the specified mode. The binary protocol 
  is TBD.
  
  comm_prot <version no>
  With get, returns the current protocol version used by the server,
  with set, sets the server to use the specified protocol version,
  provided it is lower than or equal to the highest version number
  supported by the server implementation.

  INIFILE
  Returns the path and file name of the current configuration inifile.

  plat
  Returns the platform for which this was compiled, e.g., linux_2_0_36

  ini <var> <section>
  Returns the string value of <var> in section <section>, in EMC_INIFILE

  debug {<new value>}
  With get, returns the integer value of EMC_DEBUG, in the EMC. Note that
  it may not be true that the local EMC_DEBUG variable here (in emcsh and
  the GUIs that use it) is the same as the EMC_DEBUG value in the EMC. This
  can happen if the EMC is started from one .ini file, and the GUI is started
  with another that has a different value for DEBUG.
  With set, sends a command to the EMC to set the new debug level,
  and sets the EMC_DEBUG global here to the same value. This will make
  the two values the same, since they really ought to be the same.

  QMode <mode>
  stop | run | pause | resume (Set only) | error (Get only)
  With no arg, returns the program queue status as "stop", "run", "pause" or "error". Otherwise,
  sends a command to set the current mode to "stop", "run" or "pause".

  QStatus <Queue Size> <First Tag Id> <Last Tag Id> <Queue CRC>
  Get only, returns then number of programs in queue (Queue Size), the Tag id of the first 
  program in the queue, the Tag id of the last program in the queue, and the CRC of all
  of the Tag Ids in the queue. The actual calculation of the CRC is not important, the
  purpose is to be able to compare the current CRC with the previous CRC. If they
  differ, then there has been a change to the size or order of the programs in queue.

  AutoTagId <Start Id>
  With get, returns the next autoincremented unique tag id to associate with a queue record.
  With set, resets auto tag generation to begin at the specified value.

  PgmAdd <priority> <tag id> <x> <y> <z> <zone> <file name> <feed override> <spindle override> <tool>
  With set, adds a program to the queue with priority of the program, a unique tag identifying the 
  program, the x, y and z offsets or zone for the origin of the program, the path + file name, the
  feed and spindle overrides to apply, and the default tool to use. If tag id is zero, the tag id
  will be generated automatically. If zone is zero, then the x, y, and z offsets will be used, 
  otherwise zones 1 to 9 correspond to G54 to G59.3 respectively.

  PgmById <tag id>
  [priority] [tag id] [x] [y] [z] [zone] [file name] [feed override] [spindle override] [tool]
  With get, returns the queue entry matching the specified tag id, including the priority,
  tag id, x, y, and z coordinates, the zone, file name, feed and spindle overrides and the default
  tool.

  PgmByIndex <index>
  [priority] [tag id] [x] [y] [z] [zone] [file name] [feed override] [spindle override] [tool]
  With get, returns the queue entry matching the specified index into the queue, including the priority,
  tag id, x, y, and z coordinates, the zone, file name, feed and spindle overrides and the default
  tool.

  PgmAll
  With get, performs effectively a PgmByIndex for every entry in the queue. Each result will be
  returned in the form: "PGMBYINDEX ..." with cr lf at the end of each record.

  PriorityById <tag id> <priority>
  With get, returns the priority of the queue entry matching the specified tag. With set, changes the 
  priority of the queue entry to the specified priority.

  PriorityByIndex <tag id> <priority>
  With get, returns the priority of the queue entry matching the specified index into the queue. With 
  set, changes the priority of the queue entry to the specified priority.

  DeleteById <tag id>
  With set, deletes the queue entry matching the specified tag id.

  DeleteByIndex <index>
  With set, deletes the queue entry matching the specified index into the queue.

  PollRate <rate>
  With set, sets the rate at which the scheduler polls for information. The default is 1.0 or one
  second. With get, returns the current poll rate.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBLinuxCNC(1)\fR

Much more information about LinuxCNC and HAL is available in the LinuxCNC
and HAL User Manuals, found at /usr/share/doc/LinuxCNC/.

.SH HISTORY

.SH BUGS
None known at this time. 
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
This man page written by andypugh, as part of the LinuxCNC project.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/LinuxCNC/linuxcnc/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 andypugh.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
