.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Dewey Garrett
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH sim_pin "1"  "2014-12-18" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "LinuxCNC"
.SH NAME
\fBsim_pin\fR \- gui for displaying and setting one or more Hal inputs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B \fBsim_pin\fR \fI[Options]\fR \fIname1\fR [\fIname2\fR [\fIname3\fR ...]]

\fIOptions\fR:
  \fB\-\-help\fR (shows help text)
  \fB\-\-title title_string\fR

For bit items, the name may include a /mode= specifier:
    \fInamei\fR\fB/mode=\fR[\fBpulse\fR | \fBtoggle\fR | \fBhold\fR]
    (default is toggle)
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
Hal boolean items (bit) and numerical items (u32, s32, float) are supported.

If the named input is a numerical type, the gui displays:
.P
   \fBEntry\fR  Entry widget for value or a valid Tcl expression.
.br
   \fBSet\fR    Pushbutton to set new value from Entry (or use <RETURN>)
.br
   \fBReset\fR  Pushbutton to reset to the value present on initiation
   
If the input is a \fBbit\fR type, the gui shows a single pushbutton
that is controlled by radio\-button selectors:
.P
   mode=\fBpulse\fR   Pulse input to 1 for each pushbutton press
.br
   mode=\fBtoggle\fR  Toggle input for each pushbutton press
.br
   mode=\fBhold\fR    Set input to 1 while pushbutton pressed

If the bit item mode begins with an uppercase letter,
the radio buttons for selecting other modes are not shown



.SH NOTE
LinuxCNC or a standalone Hal application must be running
.P
A named item can specify a \fBpin\fR, \fBparam\fR, or \fBsignal\fR.
The named item must be writable:
.P
  \fBpin    IN or I/O\fR (and not connected to a signal with a writer)
.br
  \fBparam  RW\fR
.br
  \fBsignal connected to a writable pin\fR

.SH USAGE
\fBsim_pin\fR can be used interactively from a shell command line or
started automatically from a configuration ini file.

.SH EXAMPLE
Example for ini file usage:

   [APPLICATIONS]
   DELAY = 5
   APP = \fBsim_pin\fR \\
.br
          halui.machine.off/mode=pulse \\
.br
          ini.traj_arc_blend_enable \\
.br
          motion\-command\-handler\-tmax

