.TH THERMISTOR "1" "2020-08-11" "LinuxCNC Documentation" "HAL Component"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..

.SH NAME

thermistor \- compute temperature indicated by a thermistor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B thermistor
.SH DESCRIPTION

This component computes the temperature indicated by a
thermistor in a voltage-divider ladder.  It uses the Beta-parameter
variant of the Steinhart-Hart equation, described here:

    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermistor
.SH PINS
.TP
.B thermistor.\fIN\fB.t0-c\fR float in \fR
Reference temperature of the thermistor, in degrees
Celsius (typically 25 C).  This must be set before the component can
compute the thermistor temperature.  The reference temperature information
is supplied by the thermistor manufacturer.
.TP
.B thermistor.\fIN\fB.r0\fR float in \fR
Resistance of the thermistor at the reference
temperature.  This must be set before the component can compute the
thermistor temperature.  The reference resistance information is supplied
by the thermistor manufacturer.
.TP
.B thermistor.\fIN\fB.beta\fR float in \fR
Beta parameter of the thermistor (sometimes
just called B).  This must be set before the component can compute the
thermistor temperature.  The Beta parameter is supplied by the thermistor
manufacturer.
.TP
.B thermistor.\fIN\fB.r-other\fR float in \fR
Resistance of the other resistor in the
voltage-divider ladder.  This must be set before the component can
compute the thermistor temperature.
.TP
.B thermistor.\fIN\fB.v-total\fR float in \fR
Supply voltage of the voltage-divider ladder.
.TP
.B thermistor.\fIN\fB.v-thermistor\fR float in \fR
Voltage drop across the termistor.
.TP
.B thermistor.\fIN\fB.temperature-c\fR float out \fR
Temperature sensed by the thermistor, in degrees Celsius.
.TP
.B thermistor.\fIN\fB.temperature-k\fR float out \fR
Temperature sensed by the thermistor, in Kelvins.
.TP
.B thermistor.\fIN\fB.temperature-f\fR float out \fR
Temperature sensed by the thermistor, in degrees Fahrenheit.
.TP
.B thermistor.\fIN\fB.resistance\fR float out \fR
Computed resistance of the thermistor.
.SH LICENSE

GPL
