mypanel float OUT 0 mypanel.dial-a-out
mypanel float OUT 0 mypanel.dial-b-out
mypanel float IN 0 mypanel.dial-c-in
mypanel float OUT 0 mypanel.dial-c-out
mypanel float OUT 0 mypanel.dial.0.out
mypanel float IN 0 mypanel.dial.0.param_pin
mypanel float IN 0 mypanel.dial.1.param_pin
mypanel float IN 0 mypanel.dial.2.param_pin
mypanel float OUT 0 mypanel.scale-a-out-f
mypanel s32   OUT 0 mypanel.scale-a-out-i
mypanel float OUT 0 mypanel.scale-b-out-f
mypanel s32   OUT 0 mypanel.scale-b-out-i
mypanel float IN 0 mypanel.scale-c-in
mypanel float OUT 0 mypanel.scale-c-out-f
mypanel s32   OUT 0 mypanel.scale-c-out-i
mypanel float OUT 0 mypanel.scale.0-f
mypanel s32   OUT 0 mypanel.scale.0-i
mypanel float IN 0 mypanel.scale.2.param_pin
mypanel float OUT 0 mypanel.spinbox-a-out
mypanel float OUT 0 mypanel.spinbox-b-out
mypanel float IN 0 mypanel.spinbox-c-in
mypanel float OUT 0 mypanel.spinbox-c-out
mypanel float OUT 0 mypanel.spinbox.0
mypanel float IN 0 mypanel.spinbox.2.param_pin
