.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Alex Joni
.\"                (alex_joni AT users DOT sourceforge DOT net)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH axis-remote "1"  "2016-04-16" "Machinekit Documentation" 
.SH NAME
.TP
.TP
axis-remote \- AXIS Remote Interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
.TP
.B axis-remote \fIOPTIONS\fR|\fIFILENAME\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
.TP
\fBaxis-remote\fR is a small script that triggers commands in a running AXIS GUI.
Use \fBaxis-remote --help\fR for further information.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.TP
.TP
\fB--ping\fR, \fB-p\fR
Check whether AXIS is running.
.TP
\fB--reload\fR, \fB-r\fR
Make AXIS reload the currently loaded file.
.TP
\fB--clear\fR, \fB-c\fR
Make AXIS clear the backplot.
.TP
\fB--quit\fR, \fB-q\fR
Make AXIS quit.
.TP
\fB--help\fR, \fB-h\fR, \fB-?\fR
Display a list of valid parameters for \fBaxis-remote\fR.
.TP
\fB--mdi COMMAND\fR, \fB-m COMMAND\fR
Run the MDI command \fBCOMMAND\fR.
.TP
\fB--run\fR, \fB-R\fR
Run the current loaded file.
.TP
\fBFILENAME\fR
Load the G-code file \fBFILENAME\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBaxis(1)\fR

Much more information about Machinekit and HAL is available in the Machinekit
and HAL User Manuals, found at /usr/share/doc/machinekit/.

.SH HISTORY
.TP
.TP
None
    
.SH BUGS
.TP
.TP
None known at this time. 
.PP

.SH AUTHOR
.TP
.TP
This man page written by Alex Joni, as part of the Machinekit project.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to alex_joni AT users DOT sourceforge DOT net

.SH COPYRIGHT
.TP
.TP
Copyright \(co 2007 Alex Joni.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
