.\" Copyright (c) 2016 ArcEye <arceye@mgware.co.uk>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH machinekit "1"  "2016-08-09" "Machinekit Documentation" 
.SH NAME
\fBmachinekit \- Accessing Machinekit Manual Pages\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION

All Machinekit documentation has been reorganised.

This stub is to assist users to find the information they are seeking.

.SH WEBSITE

troff man page builds have been deprecated as part of Machinekit

The first port of call for manual pages (and all documentation) should be the website.

\fBhttp://www.machinekit.io\fR

From the right hand side bar - which is visible from anywhere in the 'Documentation' section, select either

\fBhttp://www.machinekit.io/docs/man/man1/\fR  For information on utilities and GUIs

\fBhttp://www.machinekit.io/docs/man/man3/\fR  For information on the hal and rtapi APIs

\fBhttp://www.machinekit.io/docs/man/man9/\fR  For information on components and drivers

.SH MANUAL PAGES PACKAGE

To cater for terminal viewing locally, a second option is available

A Package called \fB'machinekit-manual-pages'\fR is now automatically created as part of the website build process.

This is available from deb.machinekit.io as per any other package.

The manual pages will then be available at /usr/share/doc/machinekit/man

You can display the pages easily with the asciidoctor plugin for firefox

\fBhttps://addons.mozilla.org/en-GB/firefox/addon/asciidoctorjs-live-preview/\fR

or for chrome

\fBhttps://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/asciidoctorjs-live-preview/iaalpfgpbocpdfblpnhhgllgbdbchmia?hl=en\fR

Alternately, for a terminal display of manual pages, the Machinekit package now contains a script called \fBmank\fR.

Invoking \fB'mank debounce'\fR for instance, will display the manual page for the component \fBdebounce\fR

\fBmank\fR uses \fBasciidoctor\fR and \fBelinks\fR and will prompt for their installation if not present.

They were not made dependencies of the machinekit package deliberately, as the overwhelming majority of users are likely

to simply use the web site and never install the local manual pages.

(NB If you are a developer and use the --view-doc option to (inst)comp, you will need asciidoctor and elinks for that to operate.)

.SH NOTE

Remember that many programs and utilities have their own help system.

Also try <program-name> -h or --help

.SH AUTHOR
This man page written by ArcEye, as part of the Machinekit project.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/machinekit

.SH LICENCE
GPL2 or higher.
