.\" Manpage for nativecam.
.\" Contact fernveilleux@gmail.com to correct errors or typos.

.TH nativecam "1" "NativeCAM"
.SH NAME
    nativecam \- A GUI to create gcode for LinuxCNC
    note: ncam is shorthand for nativecam (symlink)
    
.SH SYNOPSIS
    standalone :
      nativecam [-h, --help] [-i, --ini= inifilename] [-c, --catalog= catalog_name]
    embedded :
      run standalone with [-i, --ini= inifilename] [-c, --catalog= catalog_name]
      to automatically convert the inifile depending on axis or gmoccapy interface
      then run : linuxcnc inifilename
      
    valid catalog_name are : mill, plasma, lathe
    
.SH DESCRIPTION
    nativecam will use parameters you enter with the supplied gcode files to create
    simple or arrays of basic and semi-complex shapes for milling and plasma cutting
    systems.  Mill catalog will also provide gcode for drilling and probing.
    
.SH EXAMPLES
    Raw material must be selected first, then tool for cutting/milling params.
    Then add the shapes you want.  To show the material and help lines, you must toggle
    the 'skip block' button.  That button must also be toggled to 'skip block' before
    starting operations.  There is a safety feature to stop if not turned off.
    
.SH SEE ALSO
    There are no other related commands or functions.
    
.SH BUGS
    None known.
    
.SH AUTHOR
    Fernand Veilleux <fernveilleux@gmail.com>
   
.SH COPYRIGHT
    NativeCAM is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
    WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

    *****************************************************************

    Notice : NativeCAM is covered by the GNU General Public License
    version 2 as published by the Free Software Foundation.

    Much of NativeCAM is derived from LinuxCNC-Features, a work of 
    Nick Drobchenko and others.  It was used as the basis of NativeCAM,
    but received extensive modifications.  NativeCAM is NOT public domain.
    Anyone wishing to use the public domain code in a way that is not
    compatible with the (L)GPL must locate the original LinuxCNC-Features
    code - they may NOT use NativeCAM.

    *****************************************************************

    The complete text of GPL version 2 can be found in the file
    /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-2 on Debian systems.
